D5P139-180502
11`On 5/2 I finished the last final exam: Statistics. As always, the test was not easy, as Dr. Rafter put quite a lot of kinda “IQ” type of questions that we normally don’t do in our homework and that require some cleverness to solve. I barely finished the test. When I walked outside and encountered Dr. Rafter, she was extremely friendly to me and that have made me really happy. My active participation in class has paid off!
11`In fact, I’ve been active in all classes this semester, and I can often ask insightful questions, although I don’t go to office hours much since I’m naturally inclined to figure out the answer on my own whenever I encounter difficulties.
31`Recently my passion for football regrew, after a long time of not caring about it. This time, with a richer life experience, my viewpoint towards soccer has changed; and as I gained more experience, I can understand soccer much more deeply. This season’s UEFA Champions League is especially fascinating, and reading about these football stories really deepens one’s understanding of life.
23`The fact that even the top players have fluctuations in their performance sheds light on my academics, and I want to know how they can adjust whenever they’re not in perfect shape. I want to know how they prepare in the face of critical matches—how to keep a balance of practice and rest, between lack of motivation and excessive nervousness, what they eat and drink…
13`I want to know how intense their training is, and how they can relax so that they can recover from the intense training while avoiding losing shape entirely. I want to know how they deal with expectation from both inside and outside. I want to know how clubs function and the political mechanisms therein.
31`In the future, soccer may reemerge as one of my biggest hobbies, inspiring my academics and life in general, just as reading history did in this semester—restoring my motivation while providing diversion.
13`I spend a lot of time every day reflecting on the important experience of the previous several months. At the peak, I study for 9~11 hours every day for 5 days in a row, with about 2~3 hours spent on YouTube, and the rest of the time is mostly spent on adjusting myself or thinking about other stuff about personal development. After 4/12, I only spend an average of about 7 hours on studying every day.
13`It’s estimated that I’ve spent 1000 hours in the past 115 days (including 9 days of spring break) on studying, which is more than my 2016 ACT Prep where I spent 1000 hours on learning English within 153 days—and a lot more intense since I’m studying natural sciences and solving problems.
31`On 5/3 I spent a great deal of time packaging my stuff, and had to throw away a lot of stuff. I rediscovered many resources given to us at the beginning of the semester, and I failed to take advantage of these campus resources throughout the year…
31`On 5/4 we didn’t catch the plane back home because the Baggage Drop was stuck and clogged, and we were rescheduled free to transfer via Detroit. This is good since (1) the total time spent on the plane decreased and (2) I got to sit on a first-class seat for the first time (though not on the flight to China).
23`On the plane I watched the Hunger Games, and am amazed by its deep motifs, and the evolution of Katniss’ emotions is greatly inspiring for me. I continue to reflect on the previous semester, the fullest, happiest, and freest period of my life as of now. At the time, even my hobbies: history and soccer, are highly steered towards my goal of academic success, as discussed earlier.
23`Most of the time of the day, I’m either studying, or thinking about my past and future, or building up motivation, or trying to reflect on what I can improve and adjust to the best state. I said that at my peak I studied 9~11 hours a day; if these thinking and adjustments count, then I can spend 12~13 hours each weekday doing real stuff. Even if studying is painful sometimes, this is not a major issue, because this pain is something that I have control over.
11`By May 6 my GPA for the last semester was available. As expected, I got all A’s (with an A+ for transportation) and my overall GPA is now 3.963.
(word count for '18 Spr, as of May 8: 27535 words; word count for freshman year: + 34256 = 61791 words)
