D5P141-180508
33`Upon returning China, I’m astonished by the usage of cell phones. On the subway train, almost everyone is constantly looking at their phone. The announcement has to remind people many times that they shouldn’t look at their cell phone.
33`What’s going on with Chinese people? Is this progress or regress? In the US things are not like this! For me, if I’m constantly looking at my phone, I would not have the deep thinking inclination today. Now I’m used to thinking alone, and I know the benefits of doing so.
34`I slept 13 hours in the 24 hours from 5/9 noon to 5/10 noon, which is record breaking. I guess this is to compensate for the fact that I only slept less than 5 hours in the 48 hours from 5/3 morning Central Time to 5/5 evening Beijing Time (I pulled an all-nighter on 5/4).
33`Added on 5/14: These days, I received a lot of first-hand information into how businesses work, which motivates me to study economics and management (now I know why so many people study MBA). Well, I can teach myself economics if I want.
33`Since we as top-tier college graduates are working more in top-level fields, I believe colleges should really open more “elite-oriented” classes to meet the demands for econ majors, etc., and spend less resources on less pragmatic majors. But will this be a problem for the society as a whole?
33`On 5/14 we visited Handu.com in Jinan. (Jinan seems less developed than Qingdao, but the New Area is impressive.) The enterprise has a distinct culture in that a newcomer needs to pick a medical flower as his/her nickname. There are a lot of female workers since Handu sells mainly girls’ outfit, and it’s said that the average age of employees is 26 years!
33`I observe what they do at work, and actively recalled some Zhihu responses about how to get promoted and achieve career success, as well as my personal experience in July 2016 and at Rainbow Academy. There are a lot of banners hanging amid their working environment, and the slogans/axioms are quite motivating—I can try this at my dorm to motivate my academics! Recall Augustus’ home from TFIOS. I can also consider ways to decorate my room.
12`During the trip, I spend significant time reading calculus textbooks and solving problems on Brilliant, and my progress is a lot more impressive than I expected. It’s really pleasing to see my “# of problems solved” curve climbs straight up.
12`As my mathematical intuitions and mindsets continue to build up, and as my excitement when learning doesn’t interfere with me now compared to 4 months ago, I can say that I’ve entered a new level of learning Maths.
34`From 5/10 on, I ate a lot in all three meals since the restaurant is self-served, and by 5/12 my stomach began to hurt fiercely. After that I can only eat less and less each day. I’ve almost never made my stomach full throughout the last semester, and I’m not used to eating so much. Recall from The Hunger Games when Katniss was first exposed to the plentiful food from the Capitol.
34`Diet is an important problem as it holds sway over my body conditions and thus my academic performance at school. Considering my own situations, I may consider the method of “eat frequently, eat less each meal” next semester.
31`On 5/15 I went to Zhenjiang and lived in the new house for the first time.
