D5P142-180516
13`These days I still spend a lot of time retrospectively analyzing my studying mode in the previous semester, which is an exciting thing to do. A lot of the good thoughts, habits, and qualities that I developed in that golden period need time to sink in and apply to other scenarios; refer to what I did in the post-app.
13`It was important that I thought about my experiences during Zhongkao and ACT Prep frequently. Thinking about my glorious times (especially April 2016) all the time significantly bolstered my confidence in my academic skills, while thinking about my bad times in late 2013 and 2015 provided a lot of motivation. Such is the power of self-assurances (mental hinting).
13`Since the winter break, I started a radical reform that aims to transform my studying and thinking mode from humanities to mathematics—which is not an easy transformation. I successfully applied many principles of learning history and English to learning natural sciences while noting their differences.
13`One major difference is that when reading I can immerse myself all day, but when learning Maths I must relax periodically and adjust constantly. This brought about many changes in my lifestyle compared to ACT Prep.
13`At first, I actively sought out the best resources for learning, as well as the direction I should head for—what do I need to learn and why? How to learn them? As time goes by, as I figure out the answers to these questions, I spend less time on exploring methodologies, and more time on reflecting on the knowledge itself, as I am doing now.
13`I was under very high pressure in January, and my attitudes before the first round of mid-terms in early February were very problematic. I had to spend significant time adjusting from high excitement and self-expectation, and it might be better to spend this time thinking about knowledge itself, as previously mentioned.
13`The intense academic life has pushed me to find effective ways to relax from the daily nervousness. As I said in early February, watching National Treasures, writing diaries and reading about history were main ways for adjustment and regaining motivation, especially writing diary. Later I hanged out with CHIA and ASB, and watched soccer or other videos on YouTube.
13`Sometimes I feel that the entertainment methods I adopt seem insufficient, and that I need to release my pressure in a more thorough way, such as doing aggressive sports and going on outdoor trips (I played soccer since early April). Such mental problems won’t occur if I don’t impose that much pressure on myself, or when studying provides enough fun—recall GR3.
13`Self-reliance has been the core of my studying system since 2016, and although I actively sought mentors at the start of the previous semester, I gradually found that (1) others’ advice aren’t really that effective, (2) it wasn’t easy and necessary to keep the connection with lots of people, (3) in the digital world, I can find a lot of good resources online, and (4) sometimes peer pressure can interfere with my own pace.
13`I now put my daily performance into three categories: full shape, bad shape, relaxation, with 9 hours and 4 hours of effective studying as dividing lines. It’s estimated that the ratio of these three categories is 3:2:1. In other words, I spend 3 days every 6 days studying 9+ hours, and so on. I call it the 94-321 law, and it is a model for predicting my daily academic performance. The English usage while in school is about 80% for reading, 80% for listening, 30% for speaking, and 80% for writing.
42`Since I’m still a bit jet lagged, I have lucid dreams, and many are about 493… I’ve been reflecting on my thoughts and actions throughout the last semester and have been trying to adjust some of my bad attitudes, which is not an easy task because of my strong emotions.
14`As of the end of April, 493 accounts for about 15~20% of my motivation system. In other words, whenever I think of the reasons why I should work hard, one fifth of the time it’s because I’m thinking about her. Of course, this is much less than in January, when it might have contributed to nearly half of my motivation.
13`Back then, I argued that because I was at the “primary stage of academic progress”, I definitely needed a very powerful external force to motivate me, until I reach the stage where I can automatically immerse into studying. Indeed, now I study mainly because of the sense of achievement that naturally arises within me, and I’ve been relying less and less on this love experience.
14`Now, thinking about 493 has become a part of my life—in April I still spent more than 3~4% of my daily time thinking about her, and after the incident on 4/13, my emotions have grown even stronger. I remind myself of the 500-Day Plan many times a day, and the idea of graduating in 3 years has gradually taken root in my mind.
42`I know that the “abnormal” nature of this relationship can produce uncontrollable side effects—it already had, partly because I have to a great extent idealized 493, so when her behaviors don’t meet my expectations, I would have to combat my negative feelings and mental conflict, as in March 2016.
42`I’m really trying to talk less about 493 in my diary because of the “Diary Effect”, but it should still be noted that thinking about her continues to play a major role in my life as of now. Keeping these emotions to myself can avoid strengthening them, but it’s still problematic…
23`Despite the “Diary Effect”—writing about my feelings strengthen them, it may still be very helpful to record down my thoughts so that I can analyze them. Also keep in mind that these will be very valuable in the future.
43`The progression of this unrequited love experience essentially reflects my ambitions as a young, energetic man. I could’ve chosen a steady, stable path designed by Mom, but I want a much, much bigger world. That’s why I’m so eager to enhance my abilities in such a radical, holistic way, disinclined to follow any advice or action that can weaken my motivation or slow down my pace.
