D5P143-180518
33`On 5/18 I go to Changsha. On the metro train, I experience a very different environment from the metro train when I was in Shanghai 2 weeks ago. The people here talk more to each other, laugh more, and focus less on their phones, while people in Shanghai seem busy, indifferent, and lonely. Mom explains that in Changsha, living expenses are a lot lower and so people have less pressure.
33`Changsha’s culture is somewhat distinct from Nanjing; there are a lot more traditional elements here, and the people are more humorous and open. Also, the girls here are much younger and more beautiful; I don’t know if it’s because I live in the old urban area of Nanjing while our young people have gone to the new areas in Nanjing.
33`During our tour in Changsha, the college that Mao Zedong once attended was the most worthy. I learn about his revolutionary activities in his youth, and especially his studying methods: reading in a noisy environment to train his calmness, reading a book repeatedly and write thousands of words of comments…
33`We also visited a Gree factory, and it’s quite similar to the Haier factory I visited on 5/10. Mom takes me to the academic conferences here and instruct me how to utilize such opportunities to present myself and get to know the renowned professors in this field.
21`At the start of the summer, I’ve attended both an entrepreneur’s activity and an academic conference. I often think about the two distinct life paths from Mom’s side and from Dad’s side. Be a professor or an entrepreneur?
21`As of now, my answer is I want to be neither; I want to first work as an employee and work my way up at a company while honing my comprehensive skills. Ideally, I want to work in Bei-Shang-Guang so that I can be pushed harder.
31`From 5/17 I begin to watch the Legend of Chu and Han. By 5/23 I’ve finished 30 episodes. I’m greatly inspired by the personality of Liu Bang, and I can feel an obvious change in my personality in just a week as I think about the plot all the time. Also, the beautiful girls in the series can help divert my emotions…
12`I’m glad to see that I’m generally not addicted to this kind of entertainment. Now I continue to learn Maths veraciously, although I spend much less time actively adjusting myself or gaining motivation, since I relax much more than I study now. I finished Calculus Done Right on 5/24, by which time I’ve finished 500+ plus problems since summer.
23`The Legend of Chu and Han is really helpful for advancing my “spiritual level”, making me calmer for various situations, and greatly inspiring me to think strategically, big and long-term.
32`Recently I searched for good physiological ways to relax; next semester I might try out acupressure mats or insoles (although I don’t need it in the summer). These can stimulate blood flow and improve immunity, providing stress-relief. I often dream of life at Vanderbilt, which is curious since I often dreamt of home when at Vanderbilt.
13`The last weekend (5/26~27) was spent relaxing, and now my motivation is getting weaker and weaker compared to the start of the summer. I know this is normal and necessary for self-adjustment (recall Liu Bei’s trip to Eastern Wu and Liu Bang’s reactions after entering Xianyang). Previously I was very afraid that if I lose momentum, it’s hard to get back to the best state, but that’s not the case.
13`Now I still spend a lot of time learning maths, although the intensity is much less. My studying system has become almost stable, and the first 3 months of vigorous reform has paid off!
12`The first 3 weeks of summer saw a big improvement in my future plans. I now know more about the different paths I can take, as well as how to achieve success in a path. I have firm confidence that in the long run I can outdo the vast majority of my peers, and that I can find a way up in various environments in China through hard work. I am determined to go back to China in 10 years, so now I might consider using Chinese to write my Diary.
12`I have some talk with my parents, and they gave me a lot of good guidance, especially Dad. He mentioned using his extensive human resources to make me enter politics, and taught me techniques for presenting myself and getting notice.
