D5P144-180602
12`Now I spend on average 4 ~ 5 hours every day learning Maths/CS. I wrote three programs in C++ about three games in the Brilliant Logic course, and I’m figuring out how the computer should play Gomoku. I’m also fascinated by a challenge problem in CS warmup that lets me count the number of ways I can lock an Android; it might become the problem that took me the longest time to solve.
13`Now I can see why Dr. Rafter said it’s good to do some Math proof trainings. As I write programs, there are lots of bugs and it’s often very difficult to know for sure whether my code is correct. I’m eager to develop mathematical tools and skills to ensure that my programs are correct.
13`Although my progress is “slow,” the lack of too much motivation is not a bad thing since I can focus on the knowledge itself. The present state is good: neither distracted by lackluster peers nor intimidated by people whose abilities are too high.
14`My short-term goal is to learn as much coursework as I can in this summer and graduate in 3 years, which is not hard to achieve; my short-term plans are based on this goal. However, after the important tour of Shandong, my visions have stretched more and more into the far future—my career development decades later.
14`Despite the low starting point, I’m confident about my potential. Now I’m not doing anything too specific for my far future; I know the steps, and at the present stage, follow the coursework and building up solid foundations & qualities is more important than anything. A comprehensive self is crucial, and it’s never too late to start working hard.
12`On 6/3 I edited a wiki on Brilliant.org for the first time; it’s about my insight of using binary numbers to interpret the problem of distributing n distinct objects into 2 distinct bins. In fact, I’ve found that the knowledge of digital logic has been applied to many Maths concepts I learned recently.
32`On 6/2 I went to the driving school for the 3rd time in this summer. On 6/3 I set up an Alipay account. I removed my upper-left wisdom teeth on 6/4, the 8th teeth I removed since 2011. The anesthesia made my left ear hearing decline; this reminds me of leemz2002, who said he wouldn’t anesthetize in surgeries because he doesn’t want to damage brain functionality.
14`Added on 180608: In these few days, for reasons I don’t really know, I’ve been very motivated to study maths, so much so that I have to try to calm myself down sometimes, just like in January. There are a lot of things that keep me highly alerted consistently, and I guess that after the experience of last semester, being motivated has become a sort of habit of me.
14`This motivation, again, frequently brings about irritation and other negative emotions. Luckily, now that I don’t have immediate pressure from schoolwork, it is much easier to adjust from these problems.
12`I originally hoped I can solve more than 1,500 problems on Brilliant in this summer. Now, just one month into the summer and not even one third of the break has passed, and I’ve already attempted more than 1,800 problems, solving about 1,600, covering a wide range of topics.
12`Now my emphasis is on discrete mathematics, which I’ve come to realize as one of the crucial prerequisites for learning CS, besides logic, which I looked into in mid-May. I might start to go deeper into AI starting from July.
13`Because I often solve Brilliant problems on portable devices, I often calculate without any pens and scratch paper, just in my mind. The benefit is, again, it increases memory and brain capacities. The downside is that this method is too intense and tiring, and not very rigorous.
12`I also occasionally revisit the 3Blue1Brown videos, and it’s really amazing to see how I can get a much deeper understanding of the content with the fresh Math knowledge I learned in just the past one month! (Material for grad school essay!)
14`In late May, there was a time when my learning is directed towards my career development in the far future, more than 5 years later, so I know that everything I learn is useful.
31`I also grew reinterested in chess for some time and learned more about strategy and logic—I can make new friends with this hobby!
24`I finished none of my goals for socializing and relaxing that I set before the summer, although I miss my friends a lot and am thinking about ways to have fun with them. I’ve been thinking a lot about the lessons of my middle/high school social life: the 2/28, the 6/20, Ballance, and the 12/12, as well as the ASB. I applied for the PanoFair on 7/14.
31`Now I’ve also finished 62 episodes of Legend of Chu and Han, and I force myself to read history for some time every day because otherwise I would soon get crazy with maths. My motivation to learn literature is also building up because of the increasing demand to express my emotions effectively and dealing with interpersonal situations in life.
