D5P145-180610
32`On 6/10, 697 attended the NFLSXC admissions test, and the night before we resided in a grand hotel in Purple Mountain, which is closer to her test site. On 6/12 I got my driving license.
24`On 6/9 I had a talk with 287, and I’m really impressed by her determination of being a dentist and her efforts despite such a young age. She knows a lot about her field, but when she asked me what AI is about I don’t really know how to answer… This is a problem that needs to be solved.
13`Now I reflexively open Brilliant whenever I’m free—I’m literally addicted to it, and my mathematical mindset is quickly building up as I spend more and more time thinking about maths concepts and problems.
14`Now that I’m addicted to solving Math problems, reading Math textbooks, and watching Math videos, it’s just a matter of time for me to excel. Reduce pressure, since pressure makes me spend less time reflecting on what I learned and more time having to adjust my attitude.
24`I spend most of the time with my family; not socializing with other peers creates a lot of problems, as I’m often immersed in my own world. I don’t really know what others are doing this summer; when I think of this issue I guess most of them are far less hardworking, determined, and clear on their goals than I am, but when I hold this standpoint for too long, I can gradually get complacent over myself.
13`But studying alone without outside interference is still essential. Otherwise I won’t think deeply about something without worrying about any immediate benefits.
14`In early May, I was very proud of myself for my academic progress. One month later, my confidence fades away as I stay alone for too long, so my sense of insecurity (about my future, etc.) is increasing rapidly, causing various negative effects despite my consistent momentum in studying.
24`On 6/11, enrollment for Vandy 2022ers opened. The xuedi from Qingdao impressed me with his strong talent in Math. I’m glad that I’m attracting people of the same goals and qualities.
32`Now that I’m increasingly convinced that I’ll go back to China within at most 10~15 years, I wonder if I should change the language of my Diary to Chinese soon. Doing so won’t be easy because I’ve been writing Diary in English for 26 months. But if I make this change later, it will be even more difficult…
32`On 6/11 morning I helped Mom sort her students’ final exams. Interestingly, boys typically score much lower than girls, and the course’s difficulty is very low. Chinese college students live so relaxed lives!
13`In my recent learning of Maths, some topics I learned long ago popped up, such as my research on divisibility by 7 and other Number Theory topics in primary school, and the Math encyclopedia I loved so much in 4th Grade.
