D5P146-180616
23`Today, as I reminisce the events following the 5/0 Incident, I thought about a question: why did I gain huge motivation after the mental turbulence of the 5/0 two years ago?
23`One of the main reasons is that I wasn’t doing well academically before the 5/0 and had an intense sense of urgency to begin hardworking; that’s why I started to release my energy after the 5/0.
43`However, after the 5/0 I was still often trapped in various negative emotions during recovery and de-idealization (4/1, the 3-3 Test, the 3-4 Test, and especially late May 2016).
13`As of 6/17, with my newly gained math knowledge, when programming I don’t blindly think in dead ends. Previously this was an impediment to my efficiency; but now I can think about a problem from various different angles and activate my brain every second, instead of being stuck in the wrong direction for hours without learning anything. This is a major progress.
13`The overall strategy of building up a more solid foundation in the summer has proved correct. In Grade 10, I was reluctant to solve tough math problems since I often think for a long time without making any progress. Over time, I realized that it’s better to spend this time on something more foundational since I can really learn in this way. This is an important principle that can apply to other areas of life as well.
13`On 6/17, uncle points out an important insight: Chinese kids are pushed way too hard in their early academic stages, but the golden age for learning should be college. In childhood, kids are pushed too hard to learn things they don’t yet understand, which is indeed ineffective. I deeply agree based on my experience with Chinese.
12`On 6/21 I did some calculus exercises on Brilliant.org, and my rate of error is very high. The concepts are not hard, but when computing things, it’s extremely easy to make mistakes somewhere.
14`I’ve focused on understanding Math concepts since the start of the summer, but Math is also about precision when calculating. I don’t seem to be very good at this: is it a big deal? Well, in middle school it was, but in college, concepts are more important since you won’t be blamed much for calculation errors.
