D5P147-180629
13`It’s been a week since I’ve written any Diary… my study system has become quite stable now, and I’m still consistently motivated, studying Math for 5~6 hours every day. I really enjoy this mode of studying, as I don’t worry about any tests or homework and can proceed at any pace I want.
31`Now, my “spiritual food” mainly comes from the World Cup, as I watch almost every match. It’s really helpful for understanding more about life and providing motivation as I learn about the hard work and life paths of the players. However, watching these matches interferes with my biological clock a lot, and my lifestyle is quite unhealthy now as the weather changes from too hot to rainy.
13`For great football players such as Luka Modric, what goes on in their mind when they play on the field is extremely complex and for most of the time just intuition. So, when interviewed, they can only express their strategies in a way that sounds very simple.
23`Being alone for prolonged periods has caused me to think very deeply about my life in middle school and high school. I’ve been reflecting much on why I “failed” in my high school social life. This kind of deep reflection is good, but too much thinking has caused me to be anxious sometimes. Indeed, my social life in high school, although “blind”, helped to keep my mental health stable.
24`I’ve thought about whether to contact my previous friends for a long time, but haven’t taken any actions yet. I guess some of my old friends also think about me, but just haven’t contacted me either. The xuedi from Qingdao talks with me frequently and we discuss much about Math and courses.
14`As my knowledge accumulates and integrates, I’ve thought about creating my own YouTube channel and make series such as “Essence of sorting”, “Essence of recursion”, and other ways to showcase my skills and thoughts to professors, etc.
11`On 6/29 night I researched the requirements for graduation in the departments of Math and CS. However, I found that the courses will be very intense if I want to graduate in 3 years with two degrees; it’s almost impossible for me to go for the Honors Track, even though it sounds quite enticing for me for grad school application.
14`Although this realization brought about a motivation and a clearer goal, an anxiety attack almost broke out on 6/30 morning, since I’m thinking too much about my future recently and there’s a lack of social life. I have to force myself to stop thinking about my courses, and spend all day entertaining myself. God, learning Math and CS is pain! I really want to turn back time one year, when I was avidly reading history, and when my attitudes were the best.
42`On 6/30 night a shooting occurred in Vanderbilt campus and I contacted 493 for the first time in 2 months. Well, I still think about her a lot in the past one month, as much as I did during the last semester, even though I’ve seldom written about it. This really gives me a lot of motivation, otherwise I won’t be so hardworking in the past two months.
14`I have planned to learn machine learning in July, but now I’m thinking about getting a better math foundation for the 4 core courses in the honors track.
12`The 3,200 problems I attempted on Brilliant.org (out of which I solved 2,700) in the past two months has helped me a lot for preparation for Math, since all knowledge is connected. Now when reading the Diff Eq textbook I can understand things pretty quickly.
