D5P148-180708
12`On 7/4 and 7/6 I listened to 3 lectures by the Chinese-American professors. Most contents are about applying data analysis to some industrial and manufacturing problems.
32`When having meals with those professors, Mom repeatedly insists that she will nurture me into a professor in the future. Although I disagree, I can hardly refute—and Mom’s colleagues advised me not to refute—since I don’t want to make the situation embarrassing. But I still feel uncomfortable since I feel like being controlled.
12`On 7/7 morning, almost exactly half a year since I became a Brilliant.org Premium member, I reached the 5,000 benchmark in “problems solved”. I also begin to read the ANN e-book that 3b1b recommended. The author is extremely insightful and he knows how to approach this topic in the correct way.
13`Is it really more important to learn AI now or should I continue to solidify my mathematical foundations? If I want to specialize in something, it seems that this kind of general learning I’m pursuing now—borrowing ideas from Gaokao preparation—is unnecessary.
14`In the previous few days, I’ve been rather impolite, directionless, and emotional. This is immediately changed after I read some history and watched some TV series today. The importance of “spiritual food” is once again confirmed!
24`On 7/10 I read an article by pyf about his social experience in the past year while being responsible for the public relations for PanoPath. He spends the entire summer meeting his friends from all over the nation; his friends expand his outlook and brings him a lot of information. I, however, have gotten used to being alone. His article has caused me to reflect and put myself in perspective, though.
13`Although the prolonged isolation has caused my momentum to decline, I still spend 4~5+ hours studying every day. I’ve been addicted to Math more and more, and have gotten used to concentrating on studies.
23`My eternal mentors—3b1b, Huolaoye, Liyi, leemz2002, awing—have been guiding me spiritually, and history and soccer are my greatest diversions. The people I connect with recently are all those working hard for their dreams, and we mutually admire each other.
