D5P149-180712
<h2>Xi’an Trip</h2>
34`My sleep went very badly on 7/12. After watching the World Cup semifinals where Croatia played another extra time, I was wide awake and didn’t fall asleep until 6:00. although I slept until 9:00, my brain was so active during sleeping that I might as well not had slept. In fact, my sleep hadn’t gone well on 7/11 either, when there was another semifinal. So after waking up on 7/12, I had a serious headache, although I was in good condition on 7/10 and 7/11.
34`My lower-left chest was beating; I know it’s not my heartbeat since I can kind of control the beat, making it twitch inward 2 times and then outward 2 times, or beat temporarily slower, or stop beating by walking. But the beat is generally very regular and when it’s fierce, it’s impossible to differentiate it from my heart beat. (Note on 7/19: this may be “Benign fasciculation syndrome”?)
34`When climbing the steep stairs of Wild Goose Pagoda, my body started to break down. I also didn’t completely finish the export business on that morning, which, compounded with the oily food in the morning, made my stomach complain even more.
33`When first meeting the tour guide I was kind of nervous and couldn’t speak clearly, since I’m unfamiliar with the process. At the Terracotta Army, we were greeted by a new, specialized tour guide.
34`When touring Pit 1, there were people mountain people sea, and the interior was extremely hot and humid. That was also the time when I am the most sleepy, since on 7/12 I slept 2 hours in the afternoon and I only slept less than 5 hours today, and my sleep quality is probably worse than even at the ASB. My body went wrong again.
34`When touring Pit 1, there were people mountain people sea, and the interior was extremely hot and humid. That was also the time when I am the most sleepy, since on 7/12 I slept 2 hours in the afternoon and I only slept less than 5 hours today, and my sleep quality is probably worse than even at the ASB. My body went wrong again.
34`I couldn’t breathe and was on the binge of blacking out. My stomach has a strange feeling, partly because I ate some cold noodles for lunch—food that I’m not particularly used to. When we moved, I tried to pour some water on my body but hastily poured it on a man beside me. When my body is so weak, even the slightest stimulus or disturbance can cause devastating psychological impacts—I’m talking about you, the enormous crowd of visitors!
33`I felt much better when we exited the pit, and asked the guide if he can handle it when it gets hot. He says that he just got used to it. Since there is no air conditioning in Pit 1, under the roof is essentially a greenhouse. It can be a dozen degrees hotter than the outside—last year it reached 57.8 ℃ when it was 40+ outside! Now the temperature is no more than 32 ℃ so it could be 40+ inside.
34`Still, later my body continued to worsen, and when reaching Pit 3, I was no longer able to follow our gorgeous tour guide, and could only sit at the entrance. But after a while, it only got increasingly hotter and I got so uncomfortable that I almost called the ambulance.
34`About ten minutes later, after applying some fresh water on my body, I walked outside, which turns out way cooler than the inside, even when there are no shades! The air flows freely and I began sweating—which I didn’t when sitting in Pit 3—Seems that my perspiration system breaks down when I’m in the sultry, closed interior, but functions normally when the sun is high up.
34`I recovered at lightning speed, and walked straight out of the site, through the long shopping street, to our meet-up point near the parking lot. For two days in a row, my body conditions are on a roller coaster. I feel quite guilty as I made others worry about me.
34`This incident shows my decline of physical strength after two months of rapid weight gain (increasing from 52.5 kg to 55 kg, with very obvious thickening of my arms), lack of sports, and downright irregular sleep cycles—since all these happened during the World Cup, it’s hard not to associate my problems with my not sleeping until 5:00 for many days. CCTV-13 points out that the primary prevention method for avoiding heat strokes is to get enough sleep!
34`In fact, before the Xi’an trip similar symptoms have occurred twice, though of less severity. One was after I drove for more than an hour in mid-June; one was when I rode to Pipa Lake. Although sleep problems often interfered with my studies during freshman year (and Grade 9), I never fainted because of sleepiness.
34`Previous cases of me nearly fainting include: spring 2016, when I almost fainted when having a PE Test; and late 2016 as recorded in my diary. Dad once inspired me that these are symptoms of low blood sugar. Hope that it’s as simple as this.
34`Although my body is pretty fine during the PanoFair on 7/14, when I slept 9 hours, I was weak when touring the marvelous Shaanxi History Museum on 7/15, on which day I only slept 6 hours. When sitting on the train home, I felt strangely dizzy, and even after I half-slept through the 5-hour trip home, I still felt pain in my forehead and throat.
34`It turned out that I was having a fever of about 39 ℃—I haven’t had fevers since maybe 8th Grade? I had to go to sleep after France lead 4:1 in World Cup finals at 0:30 AM. 7/16 was spent mostly sleeping—I slept about 15 hours dream-free in the 24 hours from 7/15 16:00 to 7/16 16:00! I produced tons of sweat while sleeping, and ate few things until the dinner of 7/17.
34`On 7/17 morning Mom sent me to “work” but I almost fainted on the metro, had to exit at a station to buy some electrolyte water—I forgot to drink anything despite having sweated a lot the previous night—and, out of safety concerns, returned home but basically recovering halfway. In the afternoon I went back to Zhenjiang to help Mom transport stuff from our Nanjing home.
34`When my conditions get severe, I really want to go and check if there is some serious illness in my body, but I usually get back to normal quickly. Anyway, I’ll observe how I can recover once I stabilize my biological cycle after the end of World Cup. Importantly, keeping my health at its optimal state will be a heavy-duty but crucial task for years to come, and I must gain more experience and knowledge about health and fitness.
34`After the fever dissipated, my symptoms gradually turned into frequent coughing (from 7/19) like that of Jan 2016. I rested at home for a week, sleeping from 0:30 to 8:30 every day, but I lied on bed too much and this gradually caused severe sleepiness and weakness throughout the day plus severe stomach-jumps, until I attended a soccer game on 7/24 evening, sweated a ton, and got back to normal following a sound sleep from 22:30 to 7:00.
34`Since then my body is pretty healthy, despite consistent coughing and declining sleep quality. On 8/6, things changed. In the afternoon I removed my last wisdom teeth; although it was surprisingly painless when the doctor removed it, intense pain began to set in 3 hours after that, when the anesthesia dissipated, but the pain soon disappeared.
34`At about 23:00, however, my body grew itchy and my torso turned red. This is the first time I suffered from allergy. Mom took me to the hospital, but the doctor couldn’t identify the cause of it. I applied some medicine and got better the next day.
