D5P152-180815
<h2>Trip to Northern Capital</h2>
32`I have planned a trip to Beijing long ago, and I want to come near the end of the break so that I can enjoy a final relaxation before returning to a dull city (Nashville). On 8/5, I declared in the CHIA group chat that I’ll come to Beijing, and was enthusiastically welcomed by 671.
32`After I removed my last wisdom teeth on 8/6, Mom opposed me for this trip to Beijing on the grounds that I became sick after the Xi’an trip (D5P149), and the Beijing trip is too close to the start of the new semester.
42`When I refuted fiercely, Mom asked if I’m meeting a girl in this trip, and I explained to her, for the first time, my story and mental conflict with 493 and 671. Mom encouraged me to do what I feel right and asked about 671’s details.
13`Before the trip, my normal momentum of studying 4 ~ 6 hours of math proceeded at all times, and I’m glad that my concentration can hardly be shaken by any emotions I may have.
31`On 8/10, the time for my trip is determined to be 8/14 afternoon to 8/17 noon. Since I figured that touring popular tourist sites is boring, I announced that I’ll only go to the Palace Museum on 8/15 afternoon in the group chat.
41`671 invited me to attend an art exhibition about Monet on that morning, and we agreed to eat lunch along with 982 that noon. 671 then ordered the tickets for the art gallery for both of us. The situation was a bit embarrassing, as she seemed to be handling everything about this trip, and I was desperately trying to amend that imbalance.
43`At that time I thought that being in a relationship can really bolster my interpersonal skills on an irreplaceable level. Of course, the reality is that it’s easy to overrate the positive effects, as a relationship may waste more time than it contributes.
41`671 showed much care for my trip (although on 8/14 night she misremembered our meeting time to be 10:30, which reminds me of what happened in D5P47-170627). On 8/13, I accidentally found that the Palace Museum needs pre-ordering tickets, and with 8/15’s tickets run out, I decided to tour the Military Museum near the art expo on 8/15 afternoon, and 671 agreed to go with me so we both ordered tickets for the museum.
32`I woke up before 7 on 8/15 morning. Before departure, I forgot to apply my hair gel, so my appearance is not optimal today. Although at first I felt my body is weak I and worried about my physical conditions, I turned out fine.
32`I set out from Beiyuan on Line 13 at 8:20, but mistakenly went north instead of south, until I realized that I’m on the wrong direction 10 minutes later. I had no choice but to go south via Line 8 and perform another 2 transfers via Lines 6 and 9.
33`Lines 6 and 9 weren’t crowded, but the part of Line 8 until its interchange station with Line 10 was crammed with people (but, ironically, deafeningly quiet), and I saw a couple where the man was standing, hugging his girlfriend, while reading code on his phone. I later said to 671 that that’s what life of working class in Beijing looks like, and that I might also one day become one of them, fighting for my dream in this city of youth.
41`I met 671 at 9:40. She wore some (actually, a lot of) make-up, a pretty dress, and was wearing contact lenses. We might both be a bit nervous and unnatural at the start—in particular, it was pretty awkward (at least for my part) when we first entered the art gallery—although this awkwardness quickly dissipated.
41`The MUSE art exhibition is, despite expensive, very impressive. I thought about how to use linear algebra to make those beautiful animations of paintings, and 671 taught me some basic techniques of drawing, and we took some photos in the delicate gallery. I learned much about the life and thoughts of an artist and techniques for expressing emotions.
31`At noon, 982 joined us after we finished the tour. We initially had no idea where to have lunch, and eventually walked to a shopping mall at Princess Tomb and ate at a Chinese restaurant. When the humorous 982 is present, there is a lot more to talk about! (although sometimes one of us would be excluded from the conversation…)
24`It’s also when we were walking as a trio that 671 revealed much gossip information about Vandy classmates that blew my mind. I was feeling left out for ignorance of these events, but some time later I reminded myself of the correct strategy I’ve been implementing since April 2016.
41`After the lunch the trio took a selfie, and after 982 left, we rode bikes to the Military Museum. Neither of us understood anything about those weapons, although I explained to her some underlying history, which she wasn’t familiar with as well. We only stayed in the museum for 40 minutes, and 671 improvised a plan to tour the city by bike. We then took the subway to Tiananmen West Station.
41`From 15:20 to 16:25, we rode ofo across Revitalization Street, past the Tiananmen Square, and then through Wangfujing to head towards Fucheng Gate. In the trip I experienced the grandeur of our capital, which is what I’ve always wanted; and accidentally encountered 671’s mother before 671 led me to her alma mater, the No. 8 High School. I wasn’t in good shape when I met her mom, as I was sweating a lot, sitting on a battered ofo bicycle, and wearing an ugly cap to block the blazing sunlight.
41`She then led me to the Financial Street; upon arriving at Fucheng Gate and before I left, I sent her my LNY Coffee Shop handcraft, thanked her, instructed her to block my work from sunlight and air. Anyway, riding bikes to tour a city randomly is far more enjoyable than touring those standard attractions!
24`Again, I didn’t post anything about this meeting on social media, which is kind of a pity, but unfortunately my entrenched habit is holding me back from connecting with my peers through WeChat Moments—although I know this isn’t right. Alas.
