D5P153-180816
31`On 8/14 after arriving at Beijing, I ate dinner with 357 and played Ballance at his home, which is pretty close to my host’s home. He will soon begin his first year of graduate work at the same college, People’s University, in the same field, finance, where he got a position through baosong. He now interns at a finance company writing Matlab code.
21`357 says that there are many more people entering grad school this year; the state probably wants newly graduates to postpone their age for entering job since there just aren’t enough jobs. He also says that half of his classmates went to the US to attend grad school, but they’re admitted to colleges so Wild Chicken that I really began to doubt life.
24`He talked about what he learned as a finance major, and I am surprised when he says Math has little to do with what he learned—basic accounting, investment types, economics… I talked briefly about the conditions of Chinese people applying for top US financial companies like JP Morgan.
31`I wrote 1,500+ words of Diary in 3 hours on 8/15 night, and watched a documentary on the roads to unification of China from Qin Shi Huang to Emperor Wu, a topic I really love and that inspired my academic life tremendously in the past one year.
24`I met 042 on 8/16, who I got to know in the Xi’an PanoFair. When I first contacted him, he showed a lot of enthusiasm; after I arrived at Beijing he contacted me several more times, and shows great care for me.
32`I walked a long way near the heart of Beijing on 8/16 morning, avoiding the crowded Square; I had no idea where to eat lunch, and finally chose KFC reluctantly—but this might indeed be the best choice, since I was alone and need some energy-compact food.
31`When I was touring the Palace in the afternoon, 042 researched the location of the restaurant and sent me his decision. Unfortunately, my phone ran out of power extremely rapidly under the heat, and this caused a little trouble later on.
31`When arriving, I assumed that we would meet up at the subway station, but he headed directly to the restaurant. I told 042 that I prefer vegetables, but it turns out that the “vegetarian restaurant” was not anything I’ve seen before… None of the dish he ordered was what I’ve ever eaten…
34`I was not in good condition at first: I was coughing so severely that I feel like throwing up, and when I first sat down I felt quite dizzy, though I’m energetic for the rest of the day and my health got much better after eating something.
24`I still only ate a small proportion of the food, which makes me indebted to him since I assume this meal is very… expensive…
24`042 learned chess, painting, music in his youth, and knows a lot about the dishes since he once learned cooking. He was in the high school volleyball and tennis teams and attended various other researches, activities, and summits.
24`These reminds me of a recent Huolaoye article “Now that World Cup ended, why do we need sport? Because stratum solidification,” in which he says that elites’ children have wide-ranging hobbies and skills and plays many sports, while children of the middle class only care about studies.
24`What an elite 042 is! Compared to their colorful life, my youth (and present life) is so wasted… A standard Ivy candidate, 042 surprisingly “failed” in college application, mainly as his GPA crashed because of family affairs in his 11th Grade (he attended an American high school).
24`The friendliness 042 shows and the way he treats his friends is just so impressive. Despite having so many friends, he can remember most of the details about me even when I mentioned them only once. He is so humble, as he apologized for letting me wait, for not communicating well, and for ordering dishes I’ve not eaten before—even though some of these are my fault. He kindly lets me rest when I was feeling unwell in the beginning of the meeting…
24`Our talk is very constructive and intellectual: we talk about our experiences, our values, our perspectives, our friend circle, and current affairs; these all bolstered my confidence, letting me feel that I’m an elite too. 042 got to know a lot of NFLSers through various meetings or activities during his time in the US! He also has two extremely talented elder sisters, one at Brown and now Facebook, and one in UChi.
31`Planning to tour Sanlitun initially, we rode subway home together since it was already 20:40 when we finished dinner. He was busy talking with various people on WeChat, because of his position as the Public Relations Chair at PanoPath.
24`I said I only talked with a dozen people individually on WeChat throughout the summer, while he might’ve talked to a few hundred.
34`At 16.8 km and 30,000+ steps, the distance I walked today sets a new record for longest walk in a day (at least on my iPhone, in use since July 2016), and arguably the most tiring since it’s still quite hot. But I’m not tired although I cough a lot… a lot.
