D5P211-190502
<h2>College Graduation Year Prospects Special (incomplete)</h2>
23`Here starts 2019 summer and the 4th section of my Diary 5! In Oct. 2017, I started D5-II with a 3000-word essay about why I choose CS (D5P84), and in May 2018 I started D5-III with an article about why I’m graduating in 3 years (D5P140). And now, it is a good time to start getting an overall plan for the next 12 months and beyond.
[h3]【Part 1】The 500-Day Plan concludes ——五百天计划落幕:
23`As mentioned in my letter to 493, in January 2018 I initiated a plan to rapidly increase my CS and math skills in the coming 3 semesters, with 3,600 hours of hard work. The breakdown was 1,000 hours for each semester, 500 hours for 2018 summer and 100 hours for the winter. The primary motivation was to catch up on 493 by the end of this plan, but of course, the plan carried with it my personal ambitions that began building up since as early as college application in 2016.
13`The 500-Day Plan began on 2018/1/7, and ended on 2019/5/1. During these 480 days, I spent 1000 + 450 + 950 + 100 + 850 = 3350 hours studying, 7% less than what I originally planned. Incidentally, only about 7% of the 480 days is spent traveling in places other than Nanjing/Zhenjiang or Nashville, and because of the restricted space of our campus and Nashville city, life has become increasingly dull.
12`Apart from achieving a 4.0 GPA (including A+’s in 3 out of the 8 CS courses I took) in these 3 semesters, I’ve also built up an animation library with about 10,000 lines of code as of now, its associated YouTube channel gaining nearly 500 subscribers from 1/18 to 5/13.
11`As a pioneer in our grade’s CS learners, I rose quickly through the ranks in my CS grader position, and have completed most of CS core courses by this semester.
11`I was progressing so fast that, on 2019/1/8, I also changed my graduation date to be an entire year earlier. Aside from influence from 493, my main argument for this decision was that it’s not worthwhile given such high tuition that we come to college only to study mostly by ourselves.
12`In '18 Spr, at the height of my progress, I have believed that with all those online resources and my powerful self-motivation system, I can master anything all by myself.
21`The 3-year graduation decision brings about benefits and drawbacks alike. With one year less experience in either research or internship, I’ve endangered my immediate future prospects. However, this hugely compressed timeline and self-expectation as a rising senior also pushes me to place higher standards on myself and grow much faster than my peers.
[h3]【Part 2】Road to workforce ——求职:
21`Due to a lack of company internship experience and my identity as an int’l student, I am placed at a significant disadvantage when it comes to job application.
21`In the quest for a dream offer, I can’t emphasize enough the importance of a community. If I were to join an agency like WST, I would have access to a group of like-minded students, as well as a mentor that could provide crucial guidance, just like NLC did back in college application.
21`However, I probably won’t join any WSTs, partly because my parents would be against that; for me also, seeking jobs is not more important than applying to grad school on my to-do list. If I enter a top grad school, it’d be almost certain for me to get into Google, etc.
24`Hence, I will need to create the community all on my own.
22`For interviews, communicating my thought process is far more important than getting the problem 100% correct. It’s pivotal that I talk to someone else when coding and get feedback from my peers.
22`The biggest problem I’ll face is unfamiliarity with the actual interview process. Unlike 983, I have never received any coding interviews before. I’ve never had technical interviews in my life, so should expect myself to freak out in the first few interviews, no matter how much I prepare for it (of course, that problem can be alleviated with more preparation).
22`Interviewers and their questions can come in different styles, and if they ask something (either a problem or a follow-up analysis) I’m totally unprepared for, I can become nervous which would be something worse than not practicing enough.
23`Attitude has been a problem that I extensively explored in 2016. The 6/11 Incident 3 years ago has taught me not to overthink about the test, whereas my success in the 3-0 Test (where I got the 114 on TOEFL) was due to my not caring about it at all. As Mr. Ye put it, “becoming numb” is the best state before a major exam, which is attained by repeated exposure to the environment. I hope when the time comes, I could also behave as calmly as I would in practices!
21`In case I’m admitted to any of the giant companies, I should still apply to grad schools, especially if I feel that I will be doing tasks that I don’t like or that don’t bring about much personal development. For example, I would absolutely love to do data structure-style (CS-2201) coding—fortunately, that’s exactly what coding interviews are about—but I hate to do OS-style (CS-3281) coding.
31`If I decide to go to the workforce, though, then it’d be time to relax! Since college, I haven’t traveled much, don’t care about my appearance as well as my friends, and have little taste for life. By then, it’d be time to lift my WeChat Moments ban, expand my friend circle, improve my interpersonal skills, and attend more school activities. Go on some real adventures to meet a bigger, more exciting world—build up my personal charisma as I’m young! (Speaking of WeChat Moments, it’s also a crucial place to build friendship with potential lovers. So, it’s important!)
23`Despite all those drawbacks of focusing on studying alone [notice the double meaning of “alone”], the past 3 years of hard work does instill in me excellent academic habits and a sound knowledge base. I expect myself to continue my habit of self-inspection in my Diary, and take advantage of learning and networking opportunities, inside or outside of the company.
21`By then, I’ll also think of my future life path—get promoted? Transfer to other positions or companies, or even to an entirely different field like finance? Full-time or part time entrepreneurship (including my YouTube channel?) And, of course, go back to school to obtain a higher degree? People say that there is a severe workforce ceiling for Chinese people a decade into your work, so earning a Master’s or PhD will be a good choice…
[h3]【Part 3】Road to professional ——读研:
22`I need to conquer the GRE as soon as I can, and must aim for a satisfactory score by the time I leave for China. In the summer I’ll need to contact NLC to retrieve my TOEFL account. I remember there’s a school that requires a TOEFL but can accept a score from up to 5 years ago.
[h3]【Part 4】Road to researcher ——读博:
22`In terms of application, the path to PhD is similar to that of Master’s. However, it’s supposedly more difficult to get in, and the implication is also vastly different. Master’s programs tend to be oriented towards career and practical applications, while PhD is.
21`PhD is much longer and takes at the very least 4 years to finish, depending on how frequently I can publish papers, which in turn depends on the nature of my research and is not entirely in my control, as in college. In the worst case, I might take a frustrating 8 or 9 years to realize I wouldn’t be able to graduate at all. Given that amount of time, I’ve severely questioned the necessity of pursuing a PhD.
23`What growth will I gain from the PhD experience?
21`After graduation, becoming a college faculty seems to be the most stable life path, and a tenure professor is one of the freest job. But according to Philip Guo, this path is harder than at least what my mother thinks. In a college, it’s not surprising that there are just one or two new job openings per department every year, but the number of PhD graduates is far greater, so the competition is extremely fierce. They also don’t earn as much, although some professors start their own business based off their research.
21`That, of course, doesn’t mean the future of PhD is grim, especially in the long run. I looked up Zhipin.com (which I got to know from last year’s World Cup ads), and realize that I can easily get a ¥50w+ annual salary with a PhD (sometimes Master’s) at one of many big companies, upon returning to China.
22`Whether I choose the PhD path right away also depends on another crucial factor—could I actually get in? PG graduated from MIT with an additional year spent doing research, earning a master’s and publishing an award-winning paper, before he could go to Stanford.
22`I don’t have to achieve that much; PG was one of the best among those admitted, and he earned some extra scholarships, which later played a crucial role in his path. But I have absolutely no idea whether I stand a chance with my 0 research experience as of half a year before the application. I wish there is a consultant or advisor who can answer this question…
22`For the PhD path, the most important thing in the next semester would be to continue devoting myself to Work’s lab. This will not only help me publish a few papers and get Prof. Work’s recommendation, but also provide me with more experiences and insights into my research interests, which are crucial for SOP.
[h3]【Part 5】Diverging paths, overlapping growth ——不同的道路，相似的成长:
23`Doing research is like the Vikings sailing in North Atlantic exploring unknown new islands—it’s a lonely journey, and may not always work out. If a major expedition fails, then several years of effort goes in vain.
25`But I can very well encounter a similar situation in the workforce, when I need to figure out a solution to an unfamiliar problem and don’t know where to start. Dealing with the unknown may become a regular part of the life in both paths; both can be solved via more explorations, although you need more experiments in the former, while the latter is approached with more learning.
23`Just as college application—especially the Essay Incident (9/24)—was a significant life lesson for me, I can learn a lot from the application experience itself.
22`Apart from my TA experience, I have done two projects. I will need to organize my experience and achievements so that I can talk about them in interviews and in my SOP.
[h3]【Part 6】General Timeline ——时间线:
21`Summary of the possible outcomes of my near future (5 years): (1) entering workforce and stays; (2) entering work force and then back to grad school; (3) entering master’s grad school and then work force; (4) entering master’s grad school and then apply for PhD; (5) entering PhD directly, and graduates successfully; (6) entering PhD and then dropping out; (7) doing start-ups along with my peers; (8) failing to get satisfactory results by this time next year, starting over again in 4th year of college.
[h3]【Part 7】Final remarks ——结语:
23`Next semester—'19 Fall, will be a turning point of my life that can determine my path for at least 5 years to come. I will do my best to get myself prepared for my plans, but I must also be aware that there will be randomness and luck involved in my various applications. Despite the unpredictability, remember that the future is always bright in the long run.
14`I’ll only be taking 13 hours of courses plus CS-3251 TA, and I expect to have about 700 hours of schoolwork—only two thirds that of '18 Fall! If I only need an average of 6 hours on classes every day, I’ll have plenty of time to prepare for both paths. If I still feel not enough, I could further cut my course load to 600 hours (5 per day) by taking, for example, German II for P/F grade.
14`One thing to note is that caring too much about my courses and GPA has taken away much of my energy in the previous semesters. Next semester as I need to spend a lot of time and effort focusing on something else, I might need to set an upper limit for time on coursework, such as 40 hours per week or on average 6 hours per day.
21`Fighting a battle on both fronts helps to push my growth, distribute risk, and create diversity in my life—if I feel I haven’t had such kinds of intensity before, remember how my high school classmates were often engaged in multiple activities? Nevertheless, this lack of focus might also cause me to be unable to do well in either path.
14`After writing this Diary, I’ve become more confident. In the worst-case scenario, if all battles are lost, I can always re-adjust my graduation date so that I can start over in the 4th year, along with my peers. That would be a bit disgraceful, but the point is that I should not panic and lose faith if things don’t turn out well. Fight!!
【20190730 = 2 × 5 × 7 × 17 × 192 × 47】【20191106 = 2 × 132 × 31 × 41 × 47】
