D5P212-190504
33`On 5/3 at noon I met 120 at Commons, and I decided to join her and 671 to go to Atlanta with her that night—the hastiest trip I’ve ever made since college. Our Megabus should have departed at 18:20, but it didn’t come until 19:00 and we arrived at Atlanta at 1:20 AM, almost 1.5 hours late. 983 is also coming via her boyfriend’s car, and our tours overlap a lot, but we eventually didn’t meet.
31`On our way, I contacted 042, 204, 955, while 120 contacted her classmate, but none of them four have time to meet us since they are about to have finals at Emory, so I’ll have to visit Emory later. I also contacted 227 at GT, but she’s traveling now. Alas, we really came at the wrong time.
33`We ate at Chinese Buddha at 5/4 noon, and then 671 and 120 went to CNN and Coca-Cola (I’ve been there 4 years before), while I went to GT—the graduation ceremony happened to be taking place there. Although whether forecast said it would rain, the sun shined and I once got so hot that I had to rest in a library for half an hour.
33`Unable to attend GT’s graduation ceremony since it’s indoors, I then rode the entire subway Gold line for one back-and-forth before I reunited with my team, and ate dinner at Hsu’s, along with another Chinese boy at U of Florida. The two girls didn’t have many plans whatsoever, and it was me who picked the two Chinese restaurants… however, 120 was responsible for contacting the host family at Airbnb, and she chose a relatively safe place.
33`Speaking of subway, the subway here is killing me… When we rode to lunch in the morning, a couple of black people talked about Trump and almost got into a fight, while a black guy tried to talk to 120. On my afternoon subway trip, a seemingly homeless black guy came in, and fell off when the train accelerated. Then the two people in front of me sitting on the courtesy seats started arguing that the other should’ve given up the seat for him, and almost got into a fight again. “Am I going to die? ...”
33`I then thought a lot about how to defend myself, how to survive in poverty, the striking income disparity in the USA—passengers on public transportation tend to be poor people, and I thought about my safe motherland, where poor people at least won’t kill you.
33`Although most people on the trains are black, most blacks are dressed in uniforms or even suites or are otherwise cleanly dressed, but there are also people with tattered clothes—that’s when I need to be very careful. The best way to ride the subway is to plug in your earphones and pretend to sleep, avoiding eye contact with people around you.
33`After 7 PM, we toured the aquarium, which is pretty expensive and not quite worth it, as many of the interesting shows were gone by 6 PM—we should have looked it up. I carried 120’s umbrella and water bottle all the way through… Throughout the trip 120 and 671 shared many intimate, even “romantic,” conversations with each other, while I often acted somewhat alone.
