D5P214-190507
31`On 5/4 at noon, I contacted 287, who has just decided to go to GT for college, and we agreed to meet at a Chinese restaurant called Food Terminal. As I almost blacked out yesterday due to lack of calories, I knew I must eat some breakfast so that I could be in good shape when meeting her, and the trio ate at McDonald’s for breakfast.
33`Our original plan was to tour the Civil Rights memorial first, and at 11:30 I’ll Uber to Food Terminal. However, when we arrived there, we found that it only opens at 12:00. None of us looked it up beforehand and we just assumed that it’d open early… So with plenty of time left, I took the subway to meet 287, while 120 and 671 went to a natural museum, which they later said was really beautiful.
31`I actually already looked at the menu last night and chose the tomato beef noodles, but they run out of tomatoes so I ordered some dry rice, which turned out pretty oily and I ended up only eating less than half of it, partly also because I ate too late for breakfast (10:00) …
24`Seeing 287 in real life and hearing her voice is quite a different experience from talking to her on WeChat over the 2 years. 287 always posed a super big smile whatever she’s talking about, and I wonder how tired would that be, since smiling is pretty tiring (that’s why I smiled less…) She would frequently say with a smile that “wait, what was I gonna say…?” and then go on to talk about something new…
24`As usual, our conversation was very fast paced and she did most of the job talking. She called me xuezhang many times, while I didn’t seem to have called her name directly. Much of our topics are still intellectual and about our future life paths, or those of her acquaintances. Her cousins all attained pretty high degrees and work in medicine or law.
31`Many siblings of 287’s parent immigrated to the U.S., so her parents also applied for immigration since she was 2, but was admitted only when she was 13. She said she could apply for citizen status in 21, and that would give her more advantage in many aspects of her life such as grad school application. She attended grade 8 first at a public school, and then moved to the school she’s in now.
24`287 asked me how to take notes, and I answered in detail—I really like her concentrated manner as she listened with great care! My golden rule is to put memorization in the brain as priority and taking notes as a second choice. As I said in D5P131-180324:
13`“In Linalg classes I continue to pay full attention without making much notes” because I understand much of the concept in advance, and taking notes would only distract me from class; “in Stats and Digital Logic, however, I can only hastily copy what the teacher writes and then try to understand my notes afterwards, which is a ‘second-best’ tactic…”
13`As to what form should the notes be in, I said that it’s quite flexible and dependent on the lecture style. When the professor writes on the board, I write on notebooks; when we have lecture pdf or ppt’s, then it’s more convenient to take notes on the computer, inside these documents.
31`Although 287 has been in the U.S. for 5.5 years, I don’t feel that she’s American at all. Her phone’s language is Chinese, our talk was completely in Chinese, and sometimes I feel like her Mandarin expression skill is even better than mine.
31`I found that we’re at DeKalb county and just 10 minutes away from Lakeside High School (which I attended for 12 days in 2015), so I asked her to drive me there. 287’s driving skills are not yet good; we talked less along the way, since she also tends to join and it’s a bit distracting for her…
31`287 almost collided with a red car when she’s making a right turn, and her father was pretty mad at her (he has a thick northeastern accent while 287 not so much…) After we took some a photo in front of Lakeside High School, she dropped me off at another MARTA station where I rode the subway to the Megabus stop.
23`287 has explored extensively about her life path since an impressively young age. In comparison, I’ve been good at studying (on a microscopic level), but not so much for strategic life path planning (on a macroscopic level).
13`Historically, I have developed a rather mature set of study skills by 2016. By then, I have had unique insights into how to study efficiently, and I regard most of the study method articles about Gaokao or ACT as nonsense. After another sublimation of my reflections during this semester, I believe I’ve basically known how to cope with any kind of difficulty in my studies.
13`However, when I was 287’s age, I have little knowledge of my future life path. Then, during the “Zhihu Era” of 2017, I started an extensive research of career prospects. These resulted in the crucial decision to transfer to CS in October 2017 and one of my proudest Diaries, D5P84. That decision gave me a relatively early start in CS compared to much of my peers.
13`Since then, my “future planning” awareness has relatively stagnated, and I instead focused on how to study better. Of course, one can argue that if you have enough knowledge, it’s natural to get onto a better path.
21`However, if you ask me what are the different vibes, admission policies, and environments of all those tech companies, I would have no idea. If you ask me what specific research areas I’m interested in, what are the famous data science labs across the US, what are the different characteristics of all those great grad schools, I would also be unable to answer. And those aren’t unimportant.
21`When having dinner with 329 and 863 on 4/29 (when we watched Avengers 4), 329 talked about the great working conditions in Google, but also said that those entertainment facilities are usually used by management-level people. We discussed our career plans far into the future; I said I haven’t thought that far yet, and 329 said that becoming product managers is the natural next step (he and 863, by the way, are planning on entrepreneurship after graduation, and they share many insights into how to start businesses.)
14`I started the planning diary, D5P211, at the end of the semester but haven’t added a single word yet. By now, I still don’t quite know the specific short- and long-term plans for my life. I only have some vague sense of the state of my life for the coming years, and have had plans such as the 10k-hour plan: “study/work 10,000 hours from college graduation until my 25th birthday.”
21`However, from 5/11 on, as I really begin to plan for the future, I find that this is one of the easiest things I could do. In a few days, my knowledge of life paths for software engineer and PhD’s expands very quickly. Compared to '18 Spr coursework, reading about job/grad school application or life—this is as easy as it can get…

