D5P218-190523
11`On 5/23 (research Day 4) morning, the team of three had a meeting with Dan where he gave us some advice on our project. Our goal is to analyze the AoT data from dozens of different sensors in Chicago. Another team of researchers at UChicago seems to be working on similar things and we have been keeping in touch via email. Would that be competition or cooperation?
25`Dan told us how to communicate with them: listen more and say less, don’t provide all information about us at once which is irreversible, use himself as a “buffer” to show that we are “waiting for the professor to decide what to work with the data…” He told us to speed up our project and finish by the end of the summer in order not to be outdone.
11`He also said that our outlier detection algorithm will probably be different from theirs. No algorithm is perfect and each will have pros and cons. The outliers they are able to detect will probably be different than what we can. He cited an example of how data from a sensor in California was used by researchers for 15 years, before someone found out that one pair of sensors were placed in a wrong direction.
11`As to the progress of the project, I’ve done the pre-processing that 489  asked me to do using raw Python, but I have struggled to learn pandas to do the same thing. Dan said that pre-processing is not important since the main issue-occurring step would be applying the ML model, so we should focus on that. 489 replied that I should still learn pandas since her algorithm will be built on this package.
25`Dan strongly encouraged me to take initiative to make decisions and not just do the pre-processing work. He wants to train me into a researcher. He says that I should know about the project and the dataset more than anyone else. He urged me to come up with a plan for the summer by 5/28. If I don’t have an idea what’s going on, that’s not my bad, but I should communicate so they can figure something out to make things back on track and avoid inefficiencies.
25`I was a bit overwhelmed since I’ve read that even first-year PhD students could only work on professor-designated projects; now I’m just a 20-year-old who knows nothing and I’m asked to determine the direction of the research? And I need to prepare for GRE concurrently…
25`Well, another girl on a different team in the lab, Caroline, is just a civil engineering rising senior, and she’s done a very impressive job in 5/22’s presentation about introducing new scooters to campus… (btw, 491 also has really good English speaking skills)
11`As usual, Dan is extremely eloquent and the conversation was really intense. 489 and 491 said that they sometimes have to record what Dan said to digest later, and one can turn any of his one-hour talk into a publishable paper…
25`By 5/31, 2 weeks into the research, I’ve been not making very fast progress. At lunch, 026 talks about how he doesn’t have much work assigned. I think working with such an elderly professor will naturally be easier (BTW the professor even wants 026 to TA for the class that 026 himself will be attending next semester?!). Now that I’m working with 2 young PhD students, they are busy and need to publish papers, so I need to work longer as well.
23`Do I regret declining the DSI offer where I work with Prof. Aldroubi? Well, no. Obviously, given the time pressure of early graduation, I am tempted to take shortcuts and think that even wasting half a month is unacceptable. I am tempted to think the only thing that’s valuable is obtaining results that will look good when I put on my resume. But this is not right.
