D5P219-190531
12`As I continue to tackle Leetcode problems. Training from CS-3250 and experience in CS-2201 TA has helped me understand linked lists, tree traversals, DP, recursion, graphs, etc. But at first I wasn’t good at array and string problems on Leetcode.
13`Although strings are essentially arrays, string problems seem to have a fundamentally different property. It’s safe to say that array problems are about values and their numeric relationships, while string problems are about matching and transformations.
14`By now, I’ve enjoyed Leetcode and the feeling of burning my brain for hours, like back in '18 Spr. I often reflect on the problems I solve and digest their nature. This is the power of interest!
13`Because of the internship, I’m spending just the right amount of time on shuati, about 2 to 5 hours every day. Too much and then my efficiency will decline.
14`Since my Leetcode progress began to boom, in the latter half of May, I’ve been thinking a lot about 493, about the 12/12, that desperate “I will catch up on you” written for 457 three and a half years ago. The great sense of achievement from shuati gives me a lot of motivation, and this somehow naturally leads me to start thinking about “catching up on her” again. Did I mention that because of 493, I often misremember my age as 21 instead of 20?
14`With this kind of self-motivation, I believe that the only benefit of graduating in 4 years, besides friendship, is that it gives me more buffer to prepare myself for the future. In the long run, spending an extra year in school won’t let me learn more things at all; especially considering the tuition, it’s just not worth it.
21`BTW, some of my friends are taking up to 15 credits in summer schools. If I attend summer schools, I can actually graduate in 2.5 years?…
43`Because I’ve always been analyzing my feelings for 493 in the light of my studies, it’s been extremely hard for me to explain my story with her to my friends, so even 982 doesn’t yet know about this. Another topic for exploration is the effects and pros-and-cons of this inferiority-based relationship, in contrast to a confidence-based relationship. This would also not have occurred in the presence of strong social support, and my present state of lonely quest is a whole other topic for analysis (which I actually did a lot back in ACT Prep).
14`Seems that when I’m not thinking about 493 often, it means that I’m not thinking about my future or solving LeetCode intensely enough. However, during for example February and May 2018, my goal of studying was less about achieving short-term success than about building my character in the long run.
As is the recurring theme in my college life, when I have some mentor to look up to, be it 3b1b, Liyi, or awing, I rely less on this emotional force to motivate myself.
Sometimes, the way I motivate myself has the drawback of making me very short-sighted, obsessed, and afraid of failure. I can easily forget to plan for my life decades from now, and lose focus on improving technical skills in favor of, say, networking. But it has the benefit of helping me plan for short-term success in a timeline-oriented, orderly manner.
Conversely, I can motivate myself by thinking long-term. Today, the brilliant documentary From Qin Shihuang to Han Wudi brings me back to not only the Chinese tradition of self-reflection, the nature of civilization, and the politics of present-day China, but also Golden Age of my personal history. I am reminded of a time when my thoughts are so deep and far, that I can’t even articulate them completely, resulting in a lot of incomplete Diaries. And when I write down some ideas, they take a lot of time to sink in.
Of course, I cannot maintain this “vision that stretches into the far future” at all times, but when I do, I can “focus more on the knowledge itself” without worrying about immediate results (D5P144-180602), although this kind of studying system has the prerequisite that I only need interest and am not learning something hard enough to require external motivation.
