D5P220-190605
On 6/3 I submitted an application to Google’s Fall Software Engineer intern. I read about this opening 10 days ago, and wanted to wait until I finish the tutorial for Manim.js, but eventually have to go without that.
I took about 15 minutes to update my resume (interestingly, the 4 projects/experiences listed on this resume are all done in the past 9 months of my sophomore year), and didn’t bother to write a cover letter or find referrals. How procrastinated I am. Well, I don’t expect Google will even reach out to me anyway. On 6/4, I registered for a 7/16 GRE test.
On 6/5 morning I unexpectedly received an email from a Google recruiter, directing me to a survey and a 90-minute timed “coding sample” that are due a week from now (6/12). This will be the first time I’ve ever done something like this, so take this opportunity to gain more experience!
I looked at the Coding Sample interface, and it’s surprisingly similar to the Leetcode interface. I can first edit my code in an IDE, add up to 10 custom test cases, run my code to verify test results, and my code is eventually judged by hidden test cases. Fortunately, recently I’ve been aiming for accuracy on Leetcode and have solved 10 consecutive problems in the first attempt (partly because I’ve not attempted Hard problems for a while).
The advices emphasize considering edge cases and the asymptotic complexity for large inputs. They also mention “We’re interested in learning more about you and your skills;” I wonder if that implies the recruiters will actually look at my code for style, readability, and comments. Anyway, it’s never a bad habit to fully explain my code in comments, like 982 does. So keep that in mind.
Also, being able to run my code is a pretty big deal, and I wonder if I could still do this in an actual interview. Tomorrow I will finish the practice round, and pay attention to the following: What’s the relative difficulty of the two problems (I need this to know how much time to allocate for each problem)? Do they calculate runtime and does it matter like in Leetcode? And space complexity?
On 6/6 I talked to 983; she said that when Google interviewed her, they did 2 consecutive phone interviews and they wrote instructions and code in a Google Doc together. She completed an online code test when applying to Twitter, though, but then didn’t receive further replies.
At night I completed the Google survey. It turned out to be mostly multiple choice, and I didn’t have chance to explain things like I’m graduating a year earlier (unless in the unlikely event that I got into this internship).
I was really puzzled by some of the questions, as they basically require you to have worked on professional projects for at least several years, and there’s hardly anything I can say as a student.

I then completed the code sample practice, which has a 30-minute time limit. Unlike in Leetcode where I can choose to use Python 2, here I can only use Python 3, which I didn’t anticipate. I took about 2 minutes to calm down and actually read the problem; it’s a pretty simple string processing problem (Note on 6/9: turned out to be LC 482).
I came up with a solution in 15 minutes, and after playing around with it for a while, when there is 10 minutes left, I suddenly spotted a bolded “efficient” in problem description. I then thought to myself, wait, if I add the characters to the string one by one, wouldn’t it be O of n squared?
So I tried to rewrite the program using a list, and then converting to string, but then ran into all sorts of issues. I got compile errors because the input is capitalized while I’m used to them being lower-case letters; I forgot to update the i in the while loop and the program entered an infinite loop that I couldn’t kill for one minute; I then found that the built-in str() doesn’t convert a list of chars to a string… As there were only 2 minutes left, I had to comment the new solution out, and submit my original solution.
After the submission, I was redirected to the home page; it’s unclear whether I passed their hidden tests. When I clicked the practice again, I saw the same problem. Thank god I didn’t know this, otherwise I wouldn’t treat my practice so seriously.
Afterwards, I sent a LinkedIn friend request to my recruiter. I wanted to ask her if the recruiters will look at my code and judge it on style, and is it meaningful to write alternate solutions and then comment them out. Several days later she accepted my friend request, but when I asked her she did not reply.
My concerns were answered, however, when I searched on the internet for past people attending snapshot. And I joined the subreddit called r/cscareerquestions. I freaked out much less after seeing the posts by other Google applicants.
On 6/9 afternoon, after procrastinating for several days, I finished Google’s code sample. Before that, I thought it’d be unnecessary to do too many problems unless I can learn some different techniques or new syntax, so I selected some problems to code or just think briefly over. By now, I am confident that I could usually solve Easy problems in under 20 minutes and Medium problems in under 60 minutes (if there are no time/space complexity constraints), so if the 2 problems are one Easy one Medium, there’s nothing I should worry about.
I started the test at 16:45; I was super nervous at the beginning, but I soon found out that both problems, despite the long descriptions, were ridiculously easy, so I proceeded with much more calmness. If I had known that, I really should’ve finished them on as early as 6/6.
I solved both problems in 19 minutes. This time, the specs emphasized correctness over efficiency, but I still made some attempts to improve efficiency and analyzed the efficiency in my comments. I rewrote the first problem and submitted it in the 40th minute. I accidentally corrected a mistake in my solution to problem 2 in the 44th minute; I then added tons of comments and an alternate solution to the second problem, and submitted in the 59th minute—31 minutes before it’s due. I later found neither problems on Leetcode. (Note: in August, one of them appeared as LC 1170.)
On 6/13 I received a rejection letter from Google. I’m sad largely because I don’t get a chance to experience a real interview. Assuming I solved the code sample correctly and didn’t mess up with anything else, I think the most probable reason is that I applied a bit too late, 25 days after the job opened.
