D5P222-190622
Now let’s talk about research. In the first few weeks, my progress was relatively slow. I had to rely heavily on the code that 491 provided to me, and would spend several hours of trial and searching just to get a pandas method working correctly. I also found my job of analyzing the temperature of a remote city pointless, and felt it is not worthy of research.
The low motivation and unfamiliarity with data analytics caused me to be meandering for at least a third of my time in the lab. I felt bad that this job was taking away my time and energy that I could have spent on Leetcode, as I heard that in some other labs people could come as late as 13:00 and just chill. I began to regret not taking the DSI offer.
In the first weeks, 489 and 491 frequently pushed me to generate detailed research plans for upcoming days and weeks. At a time when I knew little about where we were going, their inquiries made me painful, since I felt that it was their job to assign tasks to me, or at least provide a clear direction.
At our meeting on the Friday of Week 3 (6/8), 489 and 491 expressed dissatisfaction with me as my progress was rather slow and I often fell asleep in the afternoon. I wasn’t used to being criticized by a “superior,” so I spent the weekend feeling pretty upset.
Just as I wanted to vent my bad feelings in my Diary, on Week 4, things started to change. As even 489 and 491 admitted that it was hard to extract new insights from the data, on 6/12 they met with Dan, who gave a lot of insights into what we can do. I didn’t attend the meeting since it was past 17:00.
Since then, for Weeks 4 through 6, I was productive and my data analysis skills increased quickly. Gradually, I no longer relied heavily on the PhDs’ sample code as well as constant Googling, and I can code much more quickly. I gained a lot of information about the availability, accuracy, and trend of the data, and presented my findings in group meetings. This work had little to do with our original purpose of outlier detection, though, and 489 only started improving the algorithm starting in Week 7.
As the analysis scaled up from 0.25 GB to 204 GB of data, I’ve devised strategies to fit so much data into the limited RAM. One way is to store the data in simplified form; the other is to process the data chunk by chunk.
I originally thought that since I need to come to the lab at 9 and walk 7 km to and from the lab every day, I will sleep as stably as I did back in high school. However, the curse of unstable sleep cycle still haunts me. I couldn’t know when I will fall asleep, and this takes away a lot of my time. Also, since I couldn’t fall asleep and need to get up early, the “sleep debt” will cause me to sleep even more irregularly at weekends.
Before, I’ve blamed the height of the bed for affecting my sleep quality. But on 6/19 I suddenly realized that the quality of my pillow and bed should take the blame. My bed and pillow are just not soft enough.
I’ve also applied some ML algorithms to analyze data. Applying ML packages is easier than even what I expected, and requires basically no effort or prior knowledge. Later I would extensively use PCA to extract the patterns in temperature readings. My linear algebra skills came in handy in my discussions with my teammates.
In Weeks 7 and 8, the research reached a bottleneck again. Although I’m still finding new ways to improve my data analysis skills, in general the work has become boring. 491 and 489 said they’ll find a suitable conference for us to submit paper.
I begin to regret not taking the path of bio/medical research, which also involve tons of ML and math. Or maybe I am working in the right lab but just isn’t working on the correct project: Our lab has 5 PhDs and many other summer interns, and there are 2 other teams, working on interesting and practical projects like analyzing the scooter data. Also, I wonder why Dan’s autonomous vehicles project stopped; this is supposed to be a more cutting-edge, hot technology that requires a lot of manpower.
Although I like working with Dan, I haven’t seen him in a month, and by Week 8, his advice wasn’t effective anymore in guiding our research. When I complain that my work is not super meaningful, my parents have encouraged me to focus on my tasks at hand. The problem is that often I don’t even know what I can do, and there is a lack of a powerful, consistent incentive such as job promotion.
My monotonous, low-effort work gave me the illusion that doing PhD work is like any regular job. However, later 489 sent me the 20-page paper she wrote in her first year, and I was reminded of the depth of knowledge and efforts required to be a PhD.
