D5P224-190627
During my time in the lab, I become good friends with 273, a rising sophomore from El Salvador with impressive work ethics, although I don’t know my other team members well, and this becomes a bit embarrassing.
On 6/30, the CHIA group went to Radnor Lake for a short hike. But it’s still tiring since it’s 34 °C… We then played guandan at 120’s house. At 7.4 km, the average daily walking distance of this month is the highest in record (on my iPhone).
In the 10 days from 6/19 to 6/28, I experienced the most stable sleep since the period from 3/21 to 3/30 of 2018. I sleep 7 hours a day, never fall sleep during the day, and wake up without the need for an alarm, even at weekends. My sleep quality will become bad starting 8 AM and I will often dream then.
I feel much more energetic and productive than I am during school sessions. Although I feel sleepy at times, this sleepiness is fundamentally different from what caused by irregular sleeps, as I’m not dizzy. Partly thanks to this awake-ness, during the 6th week at research, my shuati progress reached another peak. By 6/30 my ranking has reached the top 90,000.
Recall how I often fell asleep in the first 3 weeks of research? After suppressing my daytime sleep for those 3 to 4 weeks, I was finally able to achieve the relative stability of my sleep cycle like in middle school and high school. This is a great benefit of working 9-5, and I wish I can keep sleeping less and well in the next semester.
On 7/1 I walked 10+ km in the hottest day since summer, going from and to the lab 3 times. The intense sunlight makes it several times more tiring to walk than when it’s cooler, and the 8-km daily commute went from a great way to exercise, to something exhausting. Although I only felt tired and slept a lot at night, my body soon collapsed on 7/2 noon when I went back to school for lunch. Once I felt hard to breathe and almost blacked out, and had to call 982 to accompany me back to the dorm, where I spent the afternoon resting.
As in the last summer, my body becomes super vulnerable when two of these conditions meet: (1) It’s hot; (2) I didn’t sleep well; (3) I didn’t eat well. Since 5/10, I’ve been generally eating a lot and my weight rose quickly, thus I’ve been feeling healthy up to last week. However, by now my appetite has been decreasing because of the unvaried food.
I spend up to $30 on food every day, but I am getting much fuller than when in school; this can be cut in half if I make meals myself. At this point, I often think of Dad’s exhortation that I should not grudge my money.
Speaking of this, many of Dad’s advice has, over time, turned out influential to me, such as encouraging me to find mentors (in contrast to Mom’s conviction that studying is done better by oneself). I really want him to teach me more useful, concrete knowledge like this, instead of worrying about my safety or complaining about corruption all the time.
Another task I’m recently doing is reciting GRE words. Looking at the GRE word list, I am surprised that I can remember a word I recited 3 years ago but haven’t encountered ever since. I can even recall which method I used to remember it back in the faraway 2016. Of course, more often than not, when I see a familiar word, I cannot recall their meaning, but I’ll be quick to pick them up.
This sheds light on how my long-term memory works, so I can devise my shuati strategies better. Indeed, when I try problems that I solved a year ago, I can obviously feel that I solve them much more quickly. The “neural connection” seems permanent, and might even reinforce over time as I digest the information.
Based on my experience on 6/9, I guess that interviewers will not ask Hard-level questions for us newly graduates. (Who knows, it’s like guessing what will be on a test for a school course—you never know.) So, should I focus on fully understanding Easy problems, or still tackle some hard problems, even if they might never be asked?
But in fact, there is a benefit to spending efforts to understand Hard problem solutions, even if this requires a lot of effort and I have quite limited mental energy. The techniques—both big-picture approaches like divide and conquer, and some small tricks such as how to initialize stacks (placeholder)—are useful for solving easier problems and affect me in subtle ways.
For 2 months, 983 is almost the only person who knows I shuati, and there are 0 real-life friends discussing problems with me, which is bad for my efficiency.
On 7/6, Dad cautions me that being a programmer will endanger my career path once I reach 30 years old. He urges me to find a promising cutting-edge direction—a field that combines CS to solve domain-specific problems—within 5 years, and dig deep into it.
Back in the days after my Shandong trip in mid-May 2018, “my visions were stretched into the far future—my career development decades later (D5P144-180602).” However, it’s very hard to always keep this far vision when I’m alone, especially when I receive Lai-offer and WST group messages every day.
How short-sighted I am, compared to people like 287. But at a time when shuati has become a part of my life, I just hope that these software engineering skills will be very beneficial for me in the long run, no matter what.
