D5P225-190703
On 7/4 I watched the firework show from 982’s house. On 7/6 afternoon the CHIA group toured the Frist Art Museum. 982 once proposed a trip to Minneapolis, and it did not eventually realize. But my social needs (and emotional needs) have declined drastically recently, since I’m spending a significant amount of time watching TV series like In the Name of People, which have almost subverted my worldview!
On 7/3 night, before I started to solve a new Leetcode problem, I looked at 493’s WeChat page and found her updated background picture… (In fact, I have been frequently keeping track of her social media page.) At the moment, I didn’t feel too sad, as this has been what I have expected. I just felt that my motivation suddenly collapsed. What do I work so hard for? Well, for a large part, her!
I have so much emotion in my mind, so much to say, but I can’t say anything about this to anyone really. Except my dear Diary. I look at my friends’ WeChat pages. Many of them have found beautiful girls/boys and playing happily around the world. I feel so bad that I am still fighting alone in a dull city, although I have a few really good friends.
It’s interesting how, in the 3 years after the 5/0 Incident, my mentality for finding a girlfriend went from “growing together” to “catching up on her,” and now transitioning towards “have fun together.” This transition is natural, since I was eager to excel in college back in 2017, but now I’m a bit tired fighting, and my emphasis on my partner’s academic superiority seems to be dissipating.
At this point, my desire to get back to social media like in spring 2015, and to “fall in love” like in summer 2017, might have reached a critical point. But deep down I know that right now, I should not be swayed by others’ colorful life, as others’ social media pages often hide their difficulties in life. For example, 2 of my friends have been complaining to me how bad their work is.
Additionally, although I don’t travel around the world, my worldview and quality are still expanding as I watch historical articles, movies, and TV series, and reflect deeply on my own life, just like I watched tons of Vsauce and CC Astronomy in '18 Fall (btw, I haven’t opened YouTube for I guess a month now). I wish I can achieve the literacy of, say, 982 or Wang Diudiu, so that I can express myself better with the pictures I would post.
Finally, I believe my academic progress is among the fastest among my peers. In just 21 months, I have enhanced my Math and CS skills dramatically, and I should be proud of myself.
I have lost so much in my middle school life and I need to make up for that in those 3 or 4 years of college. Just another one or two years!
