D5P226-190708
Since July, the rainy season has stopped, and the temperature has stayed high at 34 °C, with the “feels like” temperature reaching 38 °C. At first, I could walk outside without any problems (like on 6/30), but since the incident on 7/2, my irregular sleep cycles, coupled with my decreased appetite, have made me extremely vulnerable to heat and sunlight.
In the afternoon, if I stay outside for more than 15 minutes, my body will completely break down, just like in late July of last summer. My left chest would beat drastically (as always, it’s mainly my stomach that’s beating), I would be unable to breathe, and would feel very dizzy.
As mentioned in D5P224, I achieved ideal sleep and health conditions in Weeks 5 and 6. Now I realized that a basic reason for my previous consistent sleepiness was because I wake up too many times in the morning. What was always the case on MWF was that I would set an alarm for 8:30 or 9, and then let the alarm go off every 10 minutes but resist getting up.
If, in the morning, I wake up and then fall asleep multiple times like this, I will not have a good mental state in the day. But this may be compensated if I eat a ton of food; then, I would not feel as sleepy.
On 7/10 night I tried to solve some Hard GRE Verbal problems, but ended up watching 6 episodes of In the Name of People. This reminds me of late May 2016 when I super resisted solving ACT reading problems since it’s inside my “panic zone…” Btw, I really, really love the Nanjing elements in the series! I miss my hometown sooooo much!!!
The series has caused me to reflect on past family events, which I didn’t involve in and couldn’t yet understand. It helps me understand strategies in games like Wolfers and Script Kill.
The series uses extensive phrases and references to stories and characters in Chinese and world history and literature, and I often couldn’t understand them, especially when it comes to literature. It will be difficult for me to even understand the Chinese language if I enter politics like Dad suggested.
By 2019, as I exhausted good intellectual contents on YouTube, I began to watch increasingly boring videos like car crash and cats (on Bilibili as well). Watching a TV series like this is hundreds of times more useful than watching on YouTube. My life should not be spent agonizing over my inefficiencies like in this February.
At a time when interpersonal skills, my attitudes to my friends and my life path, and self-confidence is about to become crucial, this fantastic TV series has had an indescribable but important influence on me, in terms of correcting some deficiencies brought by prolonged studying. It is also helpful for restoring motivation.
In the U.S., the political world and industries like investment banking are “stratified.” Why would networking and the so-called “personality” be crucial when applying to banking jobs? Why would some people struggle to enter a business frat and drink to death? Why do many people do only the most basic work once entering the bank? Why is it difficult for them to be promoted? It’s indeed pointless to fight in a world that looks down on people of poor origins.
I like how preparing for the GRE increases my reasoning and analytical skills. The sentences and passages included are scholarly and insightful. They are useful for expanding my worldview, though the effects are limited because these sentences and passages are discrete and lack context, compared to the TV series I’m watching.
Despite the benefits, my motivation to study GRE has remained generally low. On 7/14, 478 posted in our VU group chat that he welcomes people to ask him for FB referrals. I contacted him, and he said he’ll help submit my resume to the recruiter.
Also, on 7/13 noon I invited 139 to lunch, and we discussed our research and future plans. He’s confident that he’ll find an internship while I’ll find a job by this November. Btw, he frequently received phone calls from his girlfriend in our meeting; she’s 2 years younger and a rising high school senior in northwestern U.S. who he met in a TOEFL course.
As I look for jobs, I need to summarize the specific tasks I’ve done, the achievements and impact I’ve made in my internship experience, instead of giving a story-oriented account of my experience and complaints like in D5P222. So here we go:
