D5P228-190716
On 7/16 I took the GRE test. Originally planning to allocate 100 hours for test prep, in reality I spent less than 10 hours. From 7/10, I stopped shuati on Leetcode and planned to study exclusively for the GRE, but instead I used this time to finish 44 episodes of People. In total, I solved 1.5 verbal reasoning practice sets on the official guide, and recited about 50 words from online word lists and OG. I didn’t take any full practice tests, solved 0 math problems, and didn’t write any essays.
I am generally feeling unwell recently, and when getting up today morning, I felt so dizzy that I thought of giving up the test, but I recovered by 8 and turned out quite energetic throughout the test. At the test center, I was told that I couldn’t put my backpack there since the locker is very small, so I had to put it at the front desk.
As for writing: compared to 2016, my logical reasoning skills have increased a lot but my English expression skills declined much. (on 7/25 I got my writing score back: just 3.5.) As to Math, my practice on Brilliant.org a year ago proves pretty helpful for some of the questions.
Unlike what’s supposed to be the case in American test centers, I encountered 3 Verbal tests in Sections 2, 4, 6. Because of insufficient vocabulary, in Section 2 I can’t recognize many of the words, so when I saw that Section 4 was super easy—there is only basic vocab and no 3-blank problems or “select all that apply” problems, and I finished with 10 minutes remaining—I panicked a lot. Section 6 was hard, though, but it’s hard not because of vocabulary but because of reasoning. Of course, I have no idea which of the 3 tests is not scored.
Also, my 8:27 alarm went off during the test, and I had to turn it off during the break at about 10:00. Since I had some porridge for breakfast, I rushed through the Math sections so I can go to the bathroom earlier (ugh), finishing both with about 10 minutes remaining.
My test score is 158 + 170; I had the option to send my score to up to 4 grad schools, but I was confused by the options, as they require the “department name” after I selected the school name. I chose to send my scores to Northwestern and UCB. I exited at 11:40.
At night, I further revised my resume by adding more keywords like “code”, “software”, “program”, etc. On 7/17 night I submitted it to 478; he asked me if I want to wait a few days before he submits it, and I told him to submit now (since I figure that I’ll not add a conference paper or any other significant thing to my resume in the near future).
Then, I got an email from Facebook redirecting me to complete an application. Since it expires on 8/16, I later procrastinated until 8/14 before I applied, by which time my YouTube channel has had nearly 1,000 subscribers. I couldn’t open the page via my phone, so I had to buy a $13 VPN subscription for Windows.
I’ve also begun a social expansion on LinkedIn. The breadth of my connection is supposed to be helpful for recruiters to find me. I plan to add more people in the workforce, instead of my peers, to my network.
Since I think extensive audio input is an important tool for learning, especially for interviews, I tried to record some Back to Back SWE YouTube videos for reciting, just like I recited NCE passages; the guy is very energetic! However, my plan fails, since his videos have one significant drawback. They tend to focus too much on explaining the algorithms by tracing them, without explaining how they would develop it in the first place and explain this thought process the interviewer.
So where can I find resources that focus on how to think to arrive at a solution? Leetcode and CrackCode have both done a pretty bad job at this, as they often jump right into the solution; the CS-2201 textbook, as I mentioned earlier, does explain the thinking process well, but it’s not oriented towards interviews.
