D5P229-190724
By Week 10, I’ve already entered a “state of limbo” where it’s hard to motivate myself to do the increasingly dull and meaningless work. Good thing is 491 and 489 are paying less attention to me now. Sometimes (for example on 7/19), I spend much of my lab time pretending to read papers but actually thinking about programming problems (purely in my head).
What I love about solving Leetcode problems is that I can meet a different challenge every day. Each problem is another creative way of applying and combining problem-solving techniques. Even though I’ve tried 220 problems (by 7/22), I still learn about new techniques.
When I’m stuck on a problem, I don’t need to keep grinding it like in '19 Spr, but can instead think about other problems. I’ll take a few more days or even weeks to let this problem sink in.
On 7/20, I tentatively told Mom that I plan to aim at some big techs. To my surprise, she was all for it. This is different from last summer, when she insisted that I become a professor. I quickly realized that this is because going for a master’s program means another year of high tuition for my family.
Health: While in the start of the summer I can make myself very full after meals, now I’ve been unable to eat anything old or new. Like in '18 Fall, it’s really not that I don’t want to eat more; I can’t tolerate food that I’ve been eating for the past 2 months, and when I try something new, I’ll often end up nauseating even more. This also affects my sleep quality, which in turns causes fatigue and anxiety and affects everything in my daily life.
I still can’t walk outside for more than 15 minutes from 10:00 to 17:00, unless it rains; in fact, on 7/23 noon, even though the Weather app says it’s 24 °C, and it’s indeed cool inside campus, but on the streets under the intense sunlight, it feels like 34+ °C.
I really miss the Kissam breakfast last semester! It changes flavor from Monday to Friday, and there are many different ingredients, so I was never tired of it, even towards the end of semester. I also miss my time at Dallas, where I also had varied Chinese food to eat every day.
I wish 329 is by me now; he always knows what to eat. Fortunately, I’ll be going home in a few days. Also, from 7/18 to 7/20 I fell asleep in the middle of evenings. This means that I will not be able to fall asleep early in the next few days. If I avoid daytime sleep, my sleep cycle will gradually get back to normal in about a week.
On 7/23 night I attempted LC 21 (merge 2 sorted linked lists in place), and LC 153 (find min in rotated sorted array). For these 2 problems, it’s easy to describe the solution, but it’s surprisingly difficult to implement them. For many kinds of problem like DP, as long as you can describe the solution, it’s trivial to implement the algorithm; but there are also problems that’s hard because of details, like LC 8 (so many cases to consider).
In order to understand the problems, I must focus intensely without interference. Good thing is, for much of the summer, my solitary life has eliminated much outside distractions, just like in the last summer.
Apart from reflecting deeply on problems themselves, I’ve been thinking about how I prepared for the Standardized Tests back in 2016: how I adjusted my mental and physical states before the 3-5 Test and the 3-0 Test. I’ve thought about how I spent 10 hours working out the final question of CS-2201 Project 4 in March 2018. How I structured my C++ mini-games in summer 2018. How I explained the algorithms to students in my 2201 TA times. How I tackled the “Battle of NP” and learned hard concepts in this April…
As I said in the classic D4F116 three years ago, the ACT English test requires “high sensitivity to potential pitfalls,” but my sensitivity tends to wax and wane over time. This is like football players. The same idea applies to interviews.
When I shuati for a long time, I can forget certain things that is important to interviews. For example, I would begin to reflexively try to skip over the brute-force solution to think about better solutions, but this is a bad habit. In fact, there are lots of things I can forget.
Since I began shuati, there have been two week-long intermissions. I seem to reach optimal state a few days after returning to shuati, when I can think deeply about problems for 7+ hours per day without feeling tired. Then, my motivation will decline.
On 7/25 I revisited LC 32, which I solved with extensive help of the IDE back in 5/15, but the solution is very bad.
On 7/25 I also got stuck on 3 Easy problems, while I successfully solved 7 problems (6 of them Medium) on 7/24. Indeed, what’s frequently happened is that on one day I’ll get many problems right instantly, and on another day, I’ll get stuck again and again. Weird.
