D5P230-190726
On 7/24, I presented a part of my work over the last 3 weeks at the group meeting. In the end, Dan asked me “what can we get out of this? Did we learn anything new?” Obviously, I couldn’t answer him, because what I did most of the time was just some low-level analysis and visualization that’s not even research.
From the start, our research topic is ill-posed. I thought of transferring to the other interesting projects described in D5P222, but by now it’s apparently too late. Without too much new information to extract from AoT data, I spent Weeks 7 through 10 mostly just “giving up.”
On 7/24 I went to 139’s house and talked to him; he says his lab is pretty chill, as he goes to work at 10 and leaves at 15:30. Some of the interns and PhDs don’t even come. In his lab, each person has a cubicle (while in some other labs, people are sitting so close together that they can clearly see what each other is doing).
People like 309, who is sitting facing the door, can do anything he wants since he can know when someone walks in; 139, unfortunately, is facing the other direction. I’m a bit annoyed that I need to sit in the lab for 8 hours per day but my teammates couldn’t even write a paper.
But even without the paper, I think I did spend enough time (about a net of 200 hours) to do enough things, and I can make a good summary about what I’ve done and learnt (D5P227). This summary is adequate for job search. (what about grad school? Oh, forget about it.)
Before the final day, I planned to write a letter to Prof. Work, but I soon found out that since the project has technically not finished yet (i.e. we haven’t started on the paper), it’s too early to make conclusions about my growth and state my opinions about the project. So, it won’t be late to write this after the semester starts.
I did send toothpastes to 491 and 489, respectively as a gift for their guidance. On 7/26, I concluded my summer research by spending about 4.5 hours to write a 2700-word report that summarizes all results I obtained. In fact, I only need to be productive for 4 hours every day, but I’m obliged to follow a 9-5 schedule.
On 7/28 night I arrived at Nanjing and went back to Zhenjiang. In the airport, I solved the 229th Leetcode problem, and the number of Medium problems I solved exceeded the number of Easy problems (106 vs 105). On the plane, I still thought deeply about interview problems, and my motivation was probably the highest since 2019, reaching the level described in D5P144-180602.
The weather in Zhenjiang is ridiculous: apart from the 40 °C air temperature, the extreme humidity makes the heat index 53 °C in the day and never below 37 °C at night. 99 says that in his youth, it was never as hot as this.
Despite the extreme heat, I have never had a heat stroke because my sleep quality is good, and I avoid walking under the sun for more than 15 minutes. However, I do feel very bad from time to time, partly because the side effects of jet lag and partly because the food often gets oily. My body becomes very vulnerable even with slightly insufficient food, and after I eat, I will nauseate for some time. As I can’t take care of myself, it’s hard for me to take care of my family.
At home, I recovered much of my tieba Diaries from my previous laptop, except for D1F, my Grade 10 Summary, and the replies to much of my posts. My tieba posts were erased by Baidu back in May.
To help me get an idea of how to actually talk during an interview, I have looked back at D4 for my TOEFL Speaking prep. Previously, I didn’t do much analysis on the 3-9 and the 3-0 Tests—I didn’t even write any Diaries after the 3-0 Test, but their importance has gradually emerged now.
Before the 3-0 Test on Nov. 5, 2016, I hardly prepared anything, but I devised three principles for the Speaking test. These helped me break the 23-point threshold that plagued me and many others to reach a score of 27.
First, relax. During the Speaking portion of the 3-6 Test, I “leaned forward and sat in a strange position… and this unnatural pose deteriorated my performance.” (D4F128) If my body is tight or if my mind is nervous, I cannot speak fluently and confidently, and my throat will soon dry up, so it’s imperative to relax.
Second, warm up. Before the test begins, there is a “describe the city you live in” microphone test, and the usual way is to just repeat the question. In the 3-0 Test, I changed my strategy to actually describe Nanjing city as if I am answering it the first time. This can help me “get into shape before Task 1 begins.” (D4F153)
Third, speak slowly and clearly. I tended to rush when speaking, so I need to correct for that.
Also, by the 3-9 Test and the 3-0 Test, I have gotten numb about the tests.
I also looked at my sleep conditions from Grade 9 to Grade 12, as I usually post my Diary right before I went to sleep: I usually slept at 0:00 for much of my high school.
