D5P231-190801
<h2>Trip to Guizhou</h2>
From 8/1 to 8/7 I and Mom toured Guizhou. It’s much cooler here than in Nanjing, but still pretty hot under the sun. Again, touring requires quite a different set of skills from studying, and being inside people mountain people sea makes me feel I’m much more ordinary than when I’m at school.
My health condition has been weirdly bad recently. Many symptoms are first occurrences. On 7/31 and 8/1 I sometimes felt I have completely no strength, and my left leg would cramp when I go upstairs. Throughout 8/2 I felt stingy pains throughout my left torso, especially at places where my muscles like to twitch.
On 8/2 we went to Huangguoshu waterfalls. Mom is smart as she organized this trip on Friday; the guide was smart and let us tour the falls in the morning and the cave in the afternoon. It later turned out that these correct decisions helped us avoid the terrible tourist peaks.
I slept 12 hours on 8/1, and on 8/2 my body broke down as I felt sleepy and listless in the morning. I recovered by 11 as my beating abdomen magically stopped complaining, and in the afternoon, the more I walked, the better I felt.
When I talked about my body conditions with Dad on 7/28, he said it’s all because I don’t exercise enough. I was confused since I thought I walk a lot, but maybe I do need some more intense sports. Well, the thing is, if I exercise too violently, I can’t have enough energy when studying.
The age decomposition of the tourists is disproportional. There are many children accompanied by parents or grandparents. I hardly saw any college students or young couples in their 20s or 30s. Is it because young people need to work? But the age distribution didn’t change too much during our tour on Saturday, whereas shopping malls are filled with young people. It seems that the young are not willing to visit such crowded places but instead prefer more comfortable trips or just big cities.
In addition, I heard less Mandarin than various Chinese dialects during the trip, which says something about the regionality and civility of the tourists.
When touring, Mom sometimes tends to make decisions unilaterally, bypassing any and all opinions that I have. I am forced to be quite dependent, and I can’t take responsibility when something goes wrong. She almost only cares about how to take good photos. Since she often attempts several times before she’s satisfied with the photos, I spend much less time enjoying the view than helping her take photos when at a site. She has little sympathy for other tourists, and often gets into trouble with others because of taking pictures, etc. However, she did take a lot of effort into organizing the trip, and she’s done pretty well.
Along our trips, we encounter locals who sell fruits or gadgets. While many of them are very old women, there are also young kids, who really aren’t supposed to do this selling. Guizhou is one of the poorest provinces of China, but things are getting better. There are many red slogans about the government’s battle against poverty, and throughout our bus rides we can see new tunnels and bridges being built among the mountainous terrains. Although we sometimes see very poor people, the economic situation in Guizhou is better than I expected for such remote areas.
On 8/4 we went to Qianhu Miaozhai and lived in a hotel on the mountain. We need to climb about 25 meters to reach it, so my body broke down when climbing the stairs for the first time (I immediately recovered after eating lunch at 14:30).
The hotel is made of wood, and seems to be quite fragile, as the ground shakes when we walk. Each room has a unique name, and we can see decorations of Miao-style silverware. The scenery is extremely beautiful, especially at the public book bar and tea house, but its mental impact decreases exponentially with the passage of time.
Compared to previous two days, there are many more young people here. As many tourists pointed out, it’s hard to really experience the customs of locals in this commercialized tourist spot, just like in Lijiang, Yunnan or Phoenix, Hunan. The local Miao people do speak their own language, but it seems that all of them are able to communicate in Mandarin, which makes me feel it’s pointless to distinguish them as another ethnic group. Within the Han people, there are also extremely diverse languages and practices, after all. In terms of physical characteristics, Miao people appear to have big foreheads.
The Miao, like the Han and unlike the Mongols, etc., are farmers. Miao people’s history is characterized by isolation and migration. Compared to peoples like the Mongols, their culture is rather primitive, and despite their population size, I didn’t find many famous Miao people in Chinese history.
Because of the environment, they developed a tribal culture that emphasizes communities. This reminds me, again, of my solitary life. I am not constrained by any communities, but instead move quickly through the college courses.
Back in my primary/middle school times, the teachers like to punish the entire class when a single student gets into trouble. Also, all students learn at exactly the same pace. This may be helpful for the “bad” students, but it disrupts the efficiency of smarter students. The West, on the other hand, has different education ideas.
On 8/5 night we took the HSR and arrived at Tongren. On 8/6 we toured Fanjing Mountain. Before 11:00, I was again interfered by the beating in my stomach, but once I recovered, I climbed the steep mountain trails with ease—the “flights climbed” data for today is the 2nd highest in record.
The air in the mountain was extremely refreshing and cool, so during the 1.5-hour wait for the cableway downhills, I took some time to understand a few string algorithms on LeetCode. We took the train to Guiyang after the trip. On 8/7 we toured Guizhou Museum and then went back to Nanjing.
As of 8/7, I’ve been sleeping stably. I go to bed at 23:00 and can fall asleep quickly, and I get up at 6 or 7. I often wake up in the middle of the night and then fall back asleep. As in the last year, once I go home, the content of my dreams becomes mostly my life in Vanderbilt.
