D5P156-180823
14`The '18 Fall semester begins on 8/22. In the first 3 days of classes, my mood underwent some rapid changes. I was once overwhelmed by the new life, but as of now I’ve been fine.
14`I found some lost “feelings” back—the state I was in during February and May, but I’ve been unable to completely replicate my shape at those golden times—the strong urge to excel, the determination to take hard work, the clear life plan, and the efforts I made to maintain that motivation.
11`My daily communication skills is pretty bad, but I’ve been exceptionally active in some of my math and CS classes, interacting frequently with the professors, even when the class is filled with upperclassmen (Math 3670, Data Science)—thanks to all the efforts I made in the previous 8 months!
12`A problem with now, compared to the previous months, is that I’ve almost depleted the study resources that I’m using over these months—YouTube and Brilliant.org. I devoured 3b1b’s videos and other math videos on YouTube, watching some of them several times; I’ve attempted more than 7,000 problems on Brilliant and I’m running out of good math problems.
14`Btw, 3b1b and Brilliant have influenced me so much that for the past two months or so, whenever I’m asked about my major, I’ve replied Math—instead of CS.
12`On 8/25 I become a patreon for 3b1b, and watched some of his hidden videos. Like me, he is such a perfectionist, and many videos that he isn’t satisfied with just go unpublished. I learned much about some important orthogonality (as prerequisites to that Data Science course) today, and this reminds me of the great feeling of growing exponentially earlier this year. Somehow, I just love thinking about linear algebra concepts—everything is interrelated so elegantly and visualized easily.
31`In an effort to provide mental breaks from studying maths (restore the study system I developed last school year), I begin to regularly read history textbooks and watch Crash Course History.
34`But reading history doesn’t seem… enough. In my small, dark dorm, without a roommate, it’s become surprisingly easy for me to feel so lonely and confined that my studies cannot proceed. The environment here is so different from back home, where I can focus on the studies for a few hours per day—here I need to spend a lot of extra hours just to adjust myself to an optimal mental state, at least as of the first week.
34`Still jet lagged, my sleep pattern now seems to follow that of the beginning of '18 Spr: sleeping and getting up half an hour later every day. I think it’s a lot more natural for humans to adopt 25-hour sleep cycles than 24-hour cycles.
32`On 8/27 I received many packages—so are many others, since it’s the first Monday after school starts. After waiting for nearly half an hour in the queue to retrieve them, I used the rice cooker and rice to make the first bowl of porridge in my life as dinner. I should’ve decided earlier that this would be my way of dealing with the 14-per-week meal plan, otherwise I wouldn’t have to buy spoons, glass bowls, etc. on Amazon.
12`On 8/28 I attended the kickoff event of DataBrains, VU’s first AI club, and met a lot of people (including 493) there. I then went to the CS-2201 training session and learned about what good and bad TA’s are like. Some past TA’s are really lazy and irresponsible, but some are very talented. I’m really looking forward to this TA experience.
12`I probably spent 20~25 hours in the past week (8/23 to 8/29) making up for the linear algebra concepts that Math-2410 didn’t teach but which are crucial to Math-3670. It was really painful at times, but now this is paying off.
