D5P157-180830
11`Today I hold the first office hour for CS-2201, and met 139, 133, and 026 (this is my first mention of him, but I believe we’ll have much cooperation in the future), who are serving as 1101 TA’s there. 026 is taking a lot of advanced math classes this term—probability, numerical analysis, and graph theory, and he says he’s exploding now.
31`By 17:00, 983 and 462 arrived for their office hours. Since there are not yet many students needing help, we three held a nice conversation. 983 is taking many advanced CS courses now, and 462 is an ABC who has gotten an offer at Amazon, thus chilling this semester—getting to know these kinds of people is a great part of being a TA!
24`462 also wants to work for a few years before she may go to grad school; she says that Microsoft offers financial support for employees attending part-time graduate studies! She talks about her interview process: her resume had looked good by her junior year, so she attended some online coding challenges and then received a phone interview to get an internship at Amazon over the summer.
24`She says for Amazon, you’re not competing with others; you just need to pass a certain threshold as they’re hiring a lot of people. Different companies have different recruiting strategies, though; Facebook has very hard coding tests.
14`This really inspired me. After a summer, my study momentum has preserved, but my motivation was not as high as before. By the end of summer, my primary motivation was seeing my # of problem solved on Brilliant increase, as well as my eternal mentor 3b1b. That’s why I now feel less happy and satisfied when studying compared to January and February, despite the entrenched inclination to study.
14`Since school started last week, I’ve tried to restore the practice of thinking about my personal history and future paths for a few hours every day, which was a powerful source of motivation back in the last semester. A strong faith takes a lot of effort to maintain, but I might have used up a lot of energy last school year, so I don’t know whether I’ll still maintain the same high level of motivation this term…
14`Well, I need to be exposed to more stimuli in my daily life—information about the industry, grad school applications, upperclassmen who have gotten good offers, peers who are aspirant and determined. I also need to write more Diaries about my life path. That’s what I did during that golden era (well, it’s not that I’ve stopped doing these now, just far less often, I think).
34`Today (8/30) my coughing suddenly intensified, and I felt very uncomfortable after having breakfast. I’ve made porridge for dinner for 4 days, and I’m thinking I should do this for breakfast from this weekend on. Past experience has shown that my stomach will become unable to tolerate the breakfast here several weeks after school starts. Now I usually have lunch at Commons, and thus got to know a bunch of freshmen.
34`At 21:40, when I was washing the dishes, very runny yellow liquid dropped out of my nostrils for several seconds, and then again when I went lying on the bed. Not having seen anything like this, I searched on Google, and saw things like “spontaneous cerebrospinal fluid leak”, which frightened me so much that I almost cried.
34`I then phoned the student health center emergency, and had a phone conversation with a physician, who said this was nothing but common cold. I searched on Baidu again and found many people have had the same problem, and a likely cause is just inflammation in the nose. I applied for the SSN with 133 and 139 on 8/31.
34`By 9/4, 2 weeks into the new semester, my weight is 118.5 lbs (53.8 kg), down almost 2 kg from when I first arrived (my weight increased by 3 kg in the summer). I really hope I can stabilize my weight; my history has repeatedly proven that if my weight drops too much, my body will collapse.
