D5P158-180831
14`The talk yesterday and the CS-3251 lecture today has caused me to doubt my recent emphasis on Math—by the end of the summer I might be spending 3 ~ 4 times more time on Math than CS, although there are many intersections. What people do in the big tech companies is primarily coding, and what we need for interviews is primarily coding skills. If I aim at Google, etc., I need to make major changes to my present study system.
21`I wish the career center can provide some crucial information such as the specific destinations for recent graduates—how many people got into the Top 5 tech companies or Top 15 grad schools. I want to know the potential impact of graduation in 3 years; can I stay for research without attending classes for the 4th year (if I don’t get satisfactory offers after the 3rd year)?
11`On 9/3 I crushed on the first CS-3251 quiz, getting only 74%, and got quite upset about it. At night, 979 came to my dorm and I spent 40 minutes checking her code; she actually impressed me a lot with her conscientiousness and politeness, and I felt really happy after I helped her.
34`Actually, recently my mood is still quite volatile, often changing dramatically within a day (though not as serious as January).
21`On 9/4, I saw the specific placement results for recent graduates of VUSE. I was surprised by how few CS people go to grad school, and I’m really relieved to see that those who do ended up in Columbia, MIT, etc.
24`During and after my office hour, I, 983, and 139 held long discussions about our future prospects. 983 urged me to come to the career fair on 9/5; with my mind wavering as to the plan to go to grad school, I agreed and began to work on my resume, and registered on some websites about job prep that 983 recommended.
21`I then researched Google Jobs and was reassured that they do prefer people with a higher degree. Indeed, for a few months, I’ve been convinced that I’m going to become a data scientist, not a programmer working for a giant company, and so a master’s or even PhD will be necessary.
21`Previously, I didn’t plan to go to the career fair at all, and have devoted all of my time to studying math, falling in love with its beauty under the guidance of 3b1b and other dashens. But now, every day I’m bombarded with the idea that programming is a more profitable and demanded skill, that we should aim at getting internships (and jobs) at those tech companies…
13`With a support group forming and my future becoming clearer again, I wish to enter a state similar to mid-February. I estimate that my current speed of progress is only about two thirds of that time period.
11`I still spend the most effort on Math 3670, and after understanding orthogonality, now I’m diving deeper into Bayes and Continuous Distributions.
