D5P159-180905
22`Today at 16:00, I and 983 met at the field house, where the Career fair was taking place, and we went behind the queue for Microsoft, which was arguably the longest across 140 employers. There were about a dozen people ahead of us, and 3 or 4 alumni doing the interview, but we still waited for 40 minutes (which means that on average, each person gets quite a long talk with the employer).
22`I didn’t realize that Microsoft is the only major tech company at the career fair; 983 explains that Vandy is not the “target school” for many employers; for those target colleges, students can apply for companies through their school website!
21`I was also informed that 496 indeed transferred to another college—Duke’s math department. This confirmed my guess, and I’m thinking whether I should… also consider transferring? 139 and 309 didn’t succeed, and I do think transferring takes too much potentially unnecessary effort.
22`During my wait, 309, 133, 139, and 544 also joined the line. Not having prepared anything for it—I didn’t even put on formal trousers/shoes—I began thinking about hat question I should ask the employer: whether Microsoft really sponsor employers attending grad school, the prospects of international students, etc.
22`I expected the entire process to be just dropping my resume and then me asking a few questions—in fact, I heard that if they hear that you’re a sophomore, they’ll reject you downright. But that wasn’t the case!
22`The person I talked to was a handsome white guy who graduated 2 years ago from VU, with a Computer Engineering BS degree. After an enthusiastic handshake, he asked for my resume, posted a sticker and wrote an “I” (which stands for internship) on it, and began asking detailed questions about my CS experience.
22`He asked about the programming projects I’ve been working on. Well, I haven’t had any large-scale personal projects—except for my coursework, plus some random little programs about simple games or python code used to solve math problems on Brilliant. He then asked about my teamwork and leadership experience, and I could only say that I’ve focusing on studies by now and have only planned to do research with professors in the future.
22`Gazing at my resume, there was an awkward moment when he seemed to be struggling to figure out what to ask me. I explained that my primary interest now is data analytics (my current resume is mostly math activities), but… well, all three alumni present are software engineers.
12`After I ended the conversation with politeness, I grabbed some free Microsoft clothes and began writing my diary. I didn’t go to additional companies (since I literally handed out the only good copy of my resume) but I met several friends and xuezhangs.
22`983 went on to talk with other people in the queue—which has gotten twice as long by then. She really knows a lot of CS people compared to me (she says she knows them through an organization called CodeIgnite). PS, 983 says her talk with her interviewer was also a bit awkward…
22`I really need to thank 983 for inviting me and accompanying me to the career fair. Well, I need to thank her for a lot of things… This time, I was stumbling a lot because of unpreparedness, and I didn’t have enough water so my throat was dry, but anyway it is really a valuable experience!
22`On 9/6 afternoon, I encountered the summer research fair on my way to the office hour. 493 and 983 worked on the same project; 488 did a lot of machine learning stuff, and I really admire her for that, but it suddenly dawned on me that—so at least it seems to me—all we need to solve a practical problem is just to find the best existing algorithm to fit, so why study those advanced underlying maths?
11`I then graded the first homework as a CS-2201 tutor. Major moment! Last night when I saw the sample grading document from another TA last year, I am so stunned how professionally s/he did so. I, however, can’t comment on anything (yet), apart from copy-and-pasting results from the professor’s grading program.
22`At 17:00, I, along with 139, 309 and 983, went to the Facebook “crack your interview” session. By the time we arrived (17:06), the classroom had run out of seats and there were about 20 people standing while about 70 were sitting. I saw many, many familiar faces there. I felt really unwell at the time, so I sat on the ground.
24`After the event, I exchanged my Diary about Google’s campus visit (D5P122-180220) for 983’s notes for the Facebook lecture. Besides information from her notes, one other thing I want to note here is that the presenter said he spent countless nights in Featheringill Hall solving code interview problems with his friends. How diligent would that be!
