D5P160-180910
12`On 9/10 night I began to explore leetcode.com, which 983 referred to me last Tuesday (it feels like that has been forever ago…). This is a completely different environment than Brilliant (where I just reached the 6,000 benchmark for problems solved on 9/9), and if it eventually becomes one of my primary extracurricular learning platforms, it would mean that job search had become my top goal. Indeed, now when being asked about my major, I begin to answer CS instead of math…
21`Btw, I even heard that some econ majors changed their status from senior to junior just because they want to find a better internship at some investment banks. WTF…
11`I logged 10 hours of work for the last two weeks, and will be paid by this Friday. The CS TA experience opens up a brand-new world for me since I have access to the students’ code. I am really impressed by 982’s project 0 code, and I actually use it to test my own project 1 code. Oh, yeah, don’t forget to mention in my job search that I complete the projects along with students during my TA experience.
11`9/11’s office hour was packed with students struggling for help, and I didn’t have time to talk to 139 and 983. I don’t know how exactly I should guide the students, since if I give them hints instead of answers, it can be really slow to fix their problems and others might not get helped. Anyway, my oral speaking skills really improved drastically in this experience.
31`On 9/11, I also received my SSN and 3b1b stickers and t-shirt. I attended 982’s Contract Bridge club meeting, and am really impressed by him;
11`Mark, my Math-3670 classmate, is on his team, and he praised me for always answering the professor’s questions in class…
11`I’m really proud for my active participation since I’m the youngest in this class, and I’m enjoying an excellent relationship with the professor. Without me, there might be a lot more awkwardness in his lectures. (On the contrary, there’s a particularly active American student on CS-3251 class while I often can only understand what the professor talks about after class, before the quiz.)
13`In fact, on 9/8 I discovered a really elegant way to visualize the coefficient in the simple linear regression model, through the formula beta = cov(X, Y)/var(X), and wrote that insight on my Math-3670 homework.
21`I’m mentioning this because in ES-2100, the Technical Communications class, we’ve done a lot of job interview practice recently, which induces me to pay more attention to recording my participation at school and elsewhere.
31`On 9/12 I attended the first round of intramural soccer match. Our team, Phoenix Order, lost 0:9 to the powerful opponent, with me losing 5 goals in the second half (and scratching my knee without me noticing until much later).
31`Fun fact: I wore the 3b1b t-shirt when playing, which is supposed to make my opponents “pause and ponder”, but well… it didn’t.
31`Despite this, I still enjoyed it so much. It not only provides the crucial friendship, but also an extremely effective way of catharsis at a time of relative mood depression (I feel like I’m happiest when solving Brilliant problems recently—my daily attempts have risen to 40+).
13`9/10 and 9/11 are spent productively, much more so than last week, as I read a lot of neural networks while there’s not much schoolwork. This increase in efficiency comes from the decrease and stabilization of my sleep time—I was constantly sleepy last week.
