D5P161-180913
34`My weight has become steady at about 54 kg, after a period of rapid weight loss in the first two weeks. My coughing finally dissipates after 2 months.
24`On 9/13 afternoon at my office hours, I, 983, and 462 had another talk about our employment prospects. 462 says that she was so stressed about her future in her 2nd year that she almost had a depression—that’s kind of what I’m experiencing right now!
12`At night, urged by 983 (again), I attended Google’s Code Jam Kickstart event, which is hosted by the same Justin and Sam as 2/20. 983 came late since she stayed at her office hours for 1.5 extra hours to help a student…
12`The format of this online coding competition is similar to ACM and different from leetcode, in that you need to get input from a file. In leetcode, the test code passes in the parameters for each test and we need to return the correct value; here, an entire file is passed in for input, and we need to write an output file.
12`That’s where the trouble comes in. I solved the first problem easily (turns out only a few students present even solved the first problem), but struggled to get rid of Python’s automatic whitespaces in my output. I should’ve used C++ in this case?!
12`I also couldn’t load the input file into my program since it requires some command line operations, and every time I type these commands it gives an error. Sam advised me to install something called “Windows subsystem for Linux.”
11`On 9/14, I started grading CS-2201 project 1. It really requires a lot of effort and thinking to identify the exact root cause of students’ mistakes to match up with the point deduction instructions in the rubric. At first, it can take one and half hours just to grade one assignment. But that’s exactly what makes this so rewarding.
11`My programming skill is skyrocketing in the process. If the career fair was hold just 10 days after 9/5, I might have a lot more to say regarding my programming experience. After about 7 hours of work, I completed my grading on 9/16 at noon, and spent the afternoon happily reading other TA’s graded work.
11`Looking back at the assignments I graded Friday night, I find that I didn’t communicate clearly in some places. At first in office hours I also had the temptation to assume that the students already know what I know.
21`Now that the path to a data analyst and software engineer has significantly diverged, which should I choose? Since the project 1 grading started, I’ve been spending significantly more time on CS than on Math. The reverse had been true by last weekend. But on 9/16 also got into the DataBrains education board. I didn’t take the application seriously, so I’m surprised when informed of the result.
34`On 9/17 noon, I threw up after eating just half an omelet after lunch. I sat on the lawn for a few minutes and was stung by lots of bugs. Later my weight dropped below 118 lbs (53.5 kg) for the first time, and my coughing reappeared.
32`The weather recently is unusually warm. Since school starts, the highest temperature has been around 32 °C. It even reached 36 °C on 9/20!
