D5P162-180919
42`Although I never mentioned this in my Diary, in the past one month my emotions for 493 has been for most of the time out of control, in a situation somewhat similar to March 2016; only this time, I no longer have the intense motivation to surpass her and the fierce confidence for excelling in the future, so I’ve been quite depressed.
34`This causes a vicious cycle, made worse by my relative lack of social life, largely because I no longer meet with friends I can talk with during meals. I am sometimes afraid of meeting my classmates, and am often stressed for no apparent reason—I need to constantly mentally adjust myself to get my state back to normal.
14`I would say that this kind of depression hasn’t interfered a lot with my strong academic momentum, and I can still focus well when studying, but I can already sense from the trend of where it’s heading that it can cause devastating effects in the long run.
14`There’s still a voice in my head—as it has been for the past one year or so—that tells me if I continue to study hard, a brand-new world will open up in front of me eventually, so that I should still stay alone even if it means pain for now.
14`Well, the thing is that, now I’ve been spending a lot less time reassuring myself ideas like this, compared to the golden age half a year ago. This means that if I don’t figure out a way to restore the practice of spending multiple hours mentally recharging myself every day, depression will take over in this lonely environment. I don’t know—psychology is always complicated…
12`I once mentioned that my problem this semester is running out of Brilliant.org problems and YouTube videos, but it turns out that’s far from the case—I’m still solving a lot of Brilliant problems daily, and watching a lot of educational YouTube videos.
14`The issue, instead, is that I depleted the resources that provide motivation—mentors who help to keep my visions wide, my confidence strong, and my life-plans clear. 3b1b, Liyi, awing… my previous mentors have all disappeared.
14`At my office hour on 9/20, I read a sticker on my “student” szj’s computer that says (in Chinese) “I will spend 99% of my time in pain and self-doubt, and 1% of the time feeling that all these hard times are worth it.” I need more of these stimulating sentences in my life!
