D5P163-180921
34`This week my sleep quality is really bad. I later searched Wiki and find that half of all adults will experience such kind of insomnia for several weeks in a year. On Friday 9/21 evening, I was in a situation like that of 3/21—intense dizziness.
11`As I have had nearly 2 points off in CS-3251, which requires 93+ to get an A, I spent much of the weekend reading the textbook to cope with the mid-term this Friday (9/28). Reading the textbook is hard, as always, but also quite rewarding.
12`I also watched the Cherno’s entire C++ series on YouTube, like I did when learning Stats on the channel “jbstatistics” and Digital Logic on Ben Eater last semester. I’m really impressed when learning that Cherno is only 23 years old! He has a ton of C++ programming experience and knows no less than my admired Professor Hemingway.
21`On 9/25 I received an email providing information about Northwestern’s graduate engineering programs. I researched the requirements, and find that they “strongly prefer” those who already have 2+ years of experience in the relevant industry. (Also, it doesn’t emphasize much on math but really cares about applicants’ coding experience.)
21`At the DataBrain board meeting later the same day, my peers discussed how companies are primarily searching for MS or PhD students when hiring data science positions. This kinda creates a question like that of whether chicken or egg comes first…
11`Knowing it’d be difficult, I smashed a total of about 25 hours into preparing for the CS3251 mid-term since 7 days before the exam. The mid-term on 9/28 wasn’t as hard as I expected, and I finished 10 minutes ahead of time.
34`This week I’m no longer feeling depressed like I did in the first 4 ~ 5 weeks of school. I think it’s because I’m used to the new life.
11`On 10/1 I pointed out a deficiency in the professor’s test program while being assigned an emergency grading task as one of the TA couldn’t grade their group. I feel happy about this since I can put this experience on the resume.
21`On 10/3 at the second DataBrains group meeting, I got to know a Vietnamese girl, 3rd year, who got into a Google program called Engineering Practicum Internship this summer. This program is specifically designed for freshmen and sophomores who are beginners in CS. The wage is 32 dollars per hour, which is pretty high compared to doing research on campus...
22`Although I’ve never considered applying for an internship as of now, I feel that this is an opportunity that I must grasp.
31`Later my soccer team lost 2:6 in our final match, and I helped with 329 with his CS project 3. In return, he recommended two websites for finding internships/jobs and brought some delicious sushi.
34`These four days (10/1 to 10/4) I’ve been in a pretty bad state, largely because my sleep is bad, though not as bad as the 5th week (now it’s 7th week). I’m sleepy during the day and can’t fall asleep until around a quarter to 1 every night despite going to bed at 0.
34`This really has a significant effect on my motivation and efficiency, and I don’t know how to solve it, except trying not to sleep during the day and hoping it gets better. By Thursday 10/4 afternoon, the effect became devastating and my body started to collapse. I had to sleep 3 hours at night, but the result is I had a very energetic weekend.
34`My body broke down again on Monday (10/8) morning as I woke up at 5 AM and had bad sleep quality since then, leaving me no choice but to sleep through the noon from 12 until right before the Math 3670 mid-term.
34`Last several weeks, I’ve forced myself not to sleep during the day to avoid the collapse of my biological clock. But it seems that such naps at noon is a good solution to my sleep problem. since the nap is early, it won’t affect my sleep time at night (refer to '17 Fall), and since I have classes in the afternoon, I won’t sleep too much.
34`Given that my sleep quality is arguably the most influential factor in my academic life, I might have to change my strategy a bit: I’ll allow sleeping during the day in case I don’t get a good sleep at night, but it’d restricted to at most one hour, and the wake up time must be no later than 16:00.
31`The weather has been staying 5~7 ℃ higher than Nanjing’s, with high at about 32 ℃ from 10/4 to 10/9. It’s halfway through the semester and it still feels like summer! On 10/11 temperature finally dropped to less than 15 ℃ and we finally entered autumn.
