D5P164-181007
31`On 10/6 night I and 545 went to Ed Sheeran’s concert. At first my body wasn’t feeling good when struck by the intense low-frequency sound waves, and this made 545 worry a lot, but later I felt much better. The show was really exciting, and Ed Sheeran really impressed me with his great singing skills. We later walked back to school from Nissan Stadium with some other Chinese students in about 80 minutes.
11`On 10/9 night when grading project 3, after 2 false alarms, I finally found a little flaw in the professor’s test program. I was super excited at the time, so I sounded a tiny bit arrogant when communicating to the professor…
21`On 10/10 night I began to work on the application to Google’s EPI. On 10/11 at office hours, 478 xuezhang (from Hangzhou) showed his acceptance letter to Facebook’s 2019 summer internship. He said that he didn’t apply and it was Facebook’s recruiter that contacted him through his LinkedIn account!
22`On 10/11 night I tried to set up a repository on Github that stores the several C++ games I wrote over the summer. I had to do some clean-up as my earliest games (written May) were of pretty bad quality. Version control is a great thing once you get used to it!
12`Unfortunately, no matter how hard I tried (and messed up), my CLion still cannot open a project whenever it’s connected to an online repository, which creates a little inconvenience when I need to push to master.
22`On 10/13 I submitted an application to Facebook just for fun. On 10/14 I finally finished the 3 essays for Google. There are actually a lot to write about regarding my coding experiences if I think really hard, and I quickly filled up the word limits.
22`For the third question, I originally wanted to talk about how my mother nurtured me into a person with a thirst for knowledge, but later figured that this question is less about my quality and more about how my unique ideas can contribute to the company’s products, so I wrote about looking back at history to solve personal and societal problems.
22`I think the question is a bit vague—does it look more for unique perspectives or unique experiences? In any case, I can only focus on one specific interpretation in 200 words. I submitted the application on 10/15 morning.
22`I feel pretty good about my essays, and I’ve begun to think about whether I should consider transferring in the next semester. It’d be a lot of boring work, though.
34`Recently my weight continues to drop, now reaching 52.5 kg. I still can’t get super used to the meal at e-Bronson, which means that I have significantly less chance to meet people and socialize—when eating at Rand at noon I can seldom meet my Chinese friends. I’m still eating Munchie for dinner over half of the time, although I’m trying out Rand. The good thing about Rand is that I can take food home if I want.

