D5P166-181023
11`On 10/23 I did my Oral Report 2 for Technical Communication. Preparing for this report really helps to increase my speaking skills—by now I’m still having trouble forming coherent sentences when speaking English (heavily dependent on the topic I’m discussing) because I speak it so infrequently, and preparing for a speech is a great way to fix it.
11`Other students’ presentations provide super useful information, as they talk about how to do networking, negotiate salaries, write formal emails, do company search, utilize LinkedIn, …
11`On 10/22~23, I worked on a group project for Math-3670. A lot of the work needs to be done in R language; fortunately, my two teammates—both senior girls—have a lot of experience with it, but that also meant that I could contribute little to the group project, which is bad…
31`On 10/24 I did my ASB interview, which wasn’t much better than last year’s because I was, again, totally unprepared for the questions…
31`After some introductory questions, they asked 2 behavioral questions: What if after several days of service, you find out that what you’re doing isn’t as impactful as you previously imagined? What would you do if during a talk at lunch, someone presents a belief that’s strongly against your own belief? They wrapped up with a fun question, what campus building would you want to live in besides the residential buildings?
11`As of the first 9 weeks, I worked a total of about 72 hours (as reported) and received 742.31 dollars. Applying the exchange rate on 10/26, that’s equal to ¥5159. This week’s project 4 doesn’t take much effort to grade, and I only spent about 6 hours grading.
12`Added on 10/27: This week (week 10) my course load has decreased much, but I utilized my spare time to learn some extra CS and linear algebra. Last semester, I was constantly pushing myself beyond the requirements of the courses, and now I want to do the same—I feel like from weeks 7 to 9 I’ve been only satisfied with completing the coursework, and sometimes even that cannot be achieved with good quality.
14`That situation was partly because of my bad body quality and partly because of my lack of motivation. I’ve considered myself ranking 4th in the community of dozens of Pugao-Chinese 2021ers, only behind 982, 026, and 983, and that I’m more competent than the vast majority of others. This is a dangerous attitude: although I tried to stimulate myself by using the same psychological tools as in my freshman year, I can’t really get motivated because of this change of fundamental assumption.
14`The reason I feel that my course load decreased compared to last semester is only because I’m placing less standards on myself, content only with getting A’s or even A-minus (for ES-2100).
31`I’ve written less than 7,000 words in my Diary since school starts. I’ve been spending less time on recharging myself through reading history, although I’ve spent considerable time watching Crash Course Astronomy over and over again, getting so fascinated by the series that I can recite some of the script, and I’m considering becoming an astrophysicist that tries to uncover the deepest mysteries of the universe (of course, that’d be impossible).
12`I’ve also watched a lot of Cherno’s C++ series and spent much time reading C++ Premier Plus, with the faith of fighting for an ISD (CS-3251) TA position—two Chinese TA’s have both received internships at Facebook next summer!! Really, I can do anything to get that TA position!
11`Our ISD professor is really good at lecturing and explaining concepts, and also has extensive industry experience so he knows the significance of what he’s talking about. However, I have had difficulties learning it efficiently.
13`One reason is that, it’s hard to learn when looking at the professor’s PPTs. To understand the concepts and the connections more deeply, it’s much better to read books like C++ Premier Plus (like Cherno said), although the book is organized differently from the course. Another reason is that it’s hard to internalize some abstract techniques without extensive experience with programming.
12`On 10/27 I decided to formally initiate my new project, a Welch Labs/3b1b-like video series. It’s planned to be focused on Linear Regression, but I might do some shorter videos to warm myself up.
12`After I failed to install 3b1b’s manim on my computer, I searched extensively for best graphics libraries for C++, Python, Javascript, etc., and as of now, have decided to implement my videos using p5.js/Processing. This gives me a lot of excitement, confidence and even sense of purpose that I’ve seldom experienced since the semester starts. Seeing such beautiful visuals gives a sense of achievement that writing ISD-style cold software doesn’t match.
12`Since it’s planned to be the main project that I work on over the rest of my sophomore life just like LNYS was in my high school, I’ve carefully thought about the validity and worthiness of this project. Obviously, I need to put something major on my profile, and my CPP-mini-games series are too small-scale for impressing the Top Tech giants/grad schools.
14`Making videos are good since (1) The result can be quantified by the number of views, and the impact can be greater than any other thing I can do as a college student, (2) I can practice both programming and maths when making the videos which is good prep for both software engineering and grad school programs, (3) I really love creating visuals and teaching, and (4) I might get to know other YouTube content creators I long admired such as 3b1b, Coding Train—that’d open a brand new world for me!
