D5P168-181030
12`On 10/29 night I started coding the warmup project—animated Sudoku solver, and indeed, I experienced a lot of unexpected bugs because of missing this-dot’s… Later I got stuck for undefined behavior for a day until I realized on 10/30 evening that “/” does not perform integer division as C++ does, but instead produces a float. WTF…
12`I finished the basics of the Sudoku solver animation on 10/30 evening, which is kind of impressive since I only began learning JavaScript just a few days ago. These days I’ve been immersed in thinking about my animations—actually for the past one week I haven’t had much schoolwork to do.
11`On 11/2 morning I took the advice of 979 and sent an email to Dr. Spinrad, requesting him to place me on the Algorithm class’s waitlist, saying that I need this for internships and faster graduation. I really don’t like to do this, and as expected I didn’t receive replies as of 11/3 morning. How did 983 get in…?
12`On 11/2 night I attended VandyHacks with 982, 120, and Emily Zhao. We actually didn’t end up submitting anything, but I don’t think it matters… 133, 139 and 619 submitted a 3D Rubik’s Cube game, which is pretty impressive. I guess it’s written completely by 133 since the program is written in C# and Unity.
12`My Sudoku Solver animation is going on pretty well, but the program’s design is still quite primitive. Next up I will place all the classes in separate files and restructure my directory.
12`For the YouTube video, I am still considering how I’m going to make it programmatically: just use draw() function, combined with some constants specifying starting points for each scene? Or use buttons and mouse to interactively create webpages, and record the webpage into videos?
11`On 11/3 when doing the Differential Equations exercises, I am still making tons of mistakes even when I try to take care when applying the formula. It reminds me of the time when I had to force myself to concentrate intensely to learn CS. I’m not spending a lot of efforts on this course, and the lack of practice gives me an illusion that this course is harder than others.
11`It’s almost inevitable that I either miscopy the problem, confuse plus signs with minus signs, or make some other careless mistake, even under high concentration, partly because there’s no IDE at help when doing Math. Dr. Lori Rafter is right—arithmetic is the hardest part of math.
13`Math 2420 might be one of the last computation-oriented Math class that I take, so it’s worth reflecting on it. I said in May that I make many mistakes when writing programs, but now I make significantly less errors when coding. I really spent a great deal of time on CS, on average several hours a day in the past one year.
31`On 11/4 I finished the Scavenger Hunt for my ASB site reveal. I will be going to New Hampshire! At night I filled out a Fee Waiver form and cut the price from $525 to $450. Looking forward to the best time in my life!
32`On 11/4 DST ends; sunrise is now at about 6:15, and sunset as early as 16:45. My sleep quality recently is still bad, but I am eating well. I haven’t gone to eBronson in a month perhaps, and this results in a noticeable shrink of my social circle, which is a problem… or not?
31`Recently I grow interested in general/special relativity and watched many YouTube videos on this topic. I am used to learning natural sciences, watching Vsauce, minutephysics, and Crash Course Astronomy over and over again, and haven’t learned any history/literature in a month, I guess.
12`On 11/7 I attended the DataBrain’s project kickoff. Only 12 people attended, and 982 says that people usually attend events less and less as the semester progresses. I later studied with him for some time.
