D5P172-181119
12`I stayed at school for the 9-day Thanksgiving break to work on the ELR project and catch up on coursework. The ELR project greatly increased my efficiency over the break, since the number of problems I’m facing is… overwhelming.
12`The first thing I need to tackle is how to structure my class hierarchy for 3D scenes; I later decided that I’ll create all 3D objects on a single background canvas, instead of using multiple canvases for 2D objects.
12`Then I need to find a way to enable configuration of my classes since there will be a lot of parameters for a class, and it would be awkward to pass a dozen arguments to the constructor. 3b1b uses a functionality called **kwargs in Python, but JavaScript doesn’t support this. I’m still exploring how to solve this…
12`The next issue is how to render math formulas on the canvas. After failing to get MathJax set up nicely on 11/19, on 11/21 I found a library named KaTeX that can render formulas on a webpage, but since it’s HTML based, it means that I’ll have to learn some HTML/CSS as well as p5.dom.js to incorporate it in the sketch.
12`At this stage, I have coded little and written no script for the project, but there is still a heck lot to do just to get everything set up! I now estimate the time needed to complete the project to be around 400 hours.
12`Now when watching 3b1b’s latest videos, I can really appreciate the difficulty of making all those beautiful animations and the efforts put into it. Same with carykh’s and Code Bullet’s AI projects—these seem simple to do watching their videos, but behind the scenes, they must have struggled a lot to reach where they are. Especially when you encounter a difficulty that you can’t seem to solve, it would require a lot of cleverness and resilience to find a way to get around it (like Cary using photo generators to make new music).
23`Comparing my level of motivation, I can now understand why some people say that the first year at the workforce is when they learn the most. When you’re out in the real world tasked to solve real problems, you’ll be much more motivated to learn (and much more purposeful) than when you’re at school.
12`My insight into software engineering is deepening rapidly. I learned how to search for external libraries, how to use them, and how they work. I realize that there is so much code that can be improved, so many issues that remain unsolved.
12`The project is pushing me hard in all aspects of personal development! If one day I am able to recreate manim.py using p5.js, it would be the greatest achievement I’ve made as of then.
12`On 11/20 I finally got a start on the “smooth animation” functionality—timers that enable drawing a line, etc., at changing speeds instead of constant speeds, and I’m super excited to apply some calculus knowledge (e.g. Riemann sums) to calculate that speed.
