D5P173-181124
32`On 11/20 I got my hair cut; although it’s been more than 90 days since my last haircut—which is record-breaking, the length of my hair wasn’t longer than when I waited 70+ days last time. This means that my hair is growing at a slower rate.
34`I slept a ton over the break, often getting up as late as 10:00 or even later (I slept almost 10.5 hours on 11/24!). In the first few days my sleep quality is so much better than when school is in session. When I was plagued by the bad sleep quality, I thought I don’t feel super mentally stressed about school so I blamed my alertness during sleep on the height of the bed. It turns out that schoolwork does have a noticeable effect after all.
34`However, I slept too much on 11/25, the day before school starts. I was supposed to get up at 7:30, but fell asleep, did an extremely vivid dream, and woke up at 10:30 and was dizzy throughout the rest of the day, and at times my body conditions are even more serious than what happened on 1/12/2017. This is bad news since I couldn’t finish my plan to get everything done for next week so that I can focus on LNYF clinics.
34`On 11/26 morning, I still haven’t recovered from that. In the morning I felt extremely sleepy, and on my way to the CS-2212 lecture, I almost blacked out. I was panicking a lot, so at about 9:30 I, for the first time, scheduled an appointment at the Health Center.
34`However, by 11 AM I had been completely recovered. I still went to appointment after 14:00; originally planned to just say “I’m fine” and then leave, I ended up having a very good talk with the super nice Dr. Maureen Seitz. Before that, a nurse did some simple checks on my body.
34`Dr. Seitz discussed my weight loss (my BMI is only 16.6 now!) and recommended that I eat “6 times a day”. She analyzed the nutrition contents of the food I eat every day, and said that I should have a balanced nutritious intake of protein, sugar, and fat.
34`She asked me to buy “trail mix”, a form of snack with compact calories and balanced nutrients, and so I did. Finally, she scheduled an appointment for me at 14:40 next Monday since she wants to follow me up. She said I can talk to her anytime I need, which gives me a good sense of security!
14`Also, on 11/26 morning when I was really sick, I was forced to concentrate on my body condition. I was forced to consider what would happen if I couldn’t finish the coursework for this semester and have to go back home. This is something I usually resist thinking about, but under the intense discomfort, my attitude changed dramatically.
14`After I quickly recovered, I automatically got back to my “normal” state of mind—worrying about studies, increasing my skills, and so on. I was aware of this kind of mental transition, since the previous state was a completely different one—one when I was not expecting high on myself.
23`This inspired me on how to control and adjust my mental conditions when I’m really stressed out. People say that after they recover from a near-fatal illness, their attitude toward life will shift in a positive way. At a time when I’m used to pushing myself, it’s worth considering how meditation can relieve my stress.
34`On 11/27 night it was ridiculously cold, temperature dropping below -5 degrees C. For the first 4 days of Week 14, I slept on average 6 hours a day, but I’m feeling good since I slept about 9 hours a day over the break.
31`On 12/3, I went to the follow-up appointment with Dr. Seitz. I met wxy at the Health Center, and we talked for the first time. Last semester, she wasn’t used to the food here, and after serious weight loss, she had to go back to Beijing in the middle of the semester, recovering naturally after several months.
34`Dr. Seitz wanted to do a lab to see if there are issues with my blood, thyroid, and diabetes—all potential causes for weight loss, but since I am feeling good now, I didn’t take these exams. I later signed up for the Student Health Account.
34`Although recently my weight is not dropping anymore, previously, not eating well enough is one of the reasons for my relative bad mood in this semester. Eating is supposed to be something that makes people happy, but not for me in an American college with bad dining—in fact, sometimes eating becomes a burden on me.
