D5P174-181126
31`Today before 10 PM I only spent less than 2.5 hours studying… Besides visiting Student Health, I also attended two dance clinics, one for a Japanese dance and another for martial arts.
31`I met 462 and 358 at the Japanese dance. Since I haven’t exercised for a long time and the movements for the dance are really fast and tiring (involving frequent deep squats), at first I could hardly follow. Also, the dance requires a lot of body coordination, and when the music is added in, my body goes completely out of sync! I’ve never danced before and it’s so hard…
31`Later I attended the martial arts clinic. Back in 2015, I was the leading performer (领操员) for the daily exercise (which involved some martial arts), and also attended some taekwondo events (well, both thanks to 457); however, at the clinic I was still doing pretty awkwardly. 120 also came, and since she learned some taekwondo before, her movements are much better than mine.
24`Reflecting on the people I really admire and regard as elites—042, Cary Huang, they all participated in various activities besides studying. These dances are supposed to make you smarter by exercising the “cerebellum.”
31`I think my college life shouldn’t be only about studies—and the performance won’t require a ton of time commitment also, just about 4 hours a week for about 7 weeks. Attending this will really have a positive impact on my mental and physical health—just look at what just happened when I don’t socialize and don’t exercise for some time! I become lazier and lazier, and my mental and physical states starts to deteriorate.
31`On 11/28, my legs still hurt from the clinics two days ago. At night I attended the Vietnamese dance clinic and the “Singkil and Tinikling” dance clinic; me included, only 2 people went to the first and 3 went to the second, while at least 50 people showed up at the K-pop clinic, including 488 (to my surprise) and 979.
31`The Filipino dance was audition-based, but since there were only 3 of us, we just practiced… Although at first it was hard to remember the movements, I actually ended up doing a good job, and the 3 of us kind of automatically passed the audition.
31`On 11/29 night I went to the Soran Bushi audition, which went… pretty well? A total of 98 people attended the audition, which is really competitive! Later I attended the Chinese Ribbon and Fan clinic/audition (20 in total attended), and one choreographer, Triston, impressed me with his excellent community-building skills—which reminds me of ASB!
24`Triston emphasizes that the dancers form a community, and so asks us to introduce ourselves, at the end of which we’ll say our names again. When we’re practicing, he kept asking if we all understood and kept making jokes to entertain us! These make tonight one of the happiest in this semester! (which also means that I did no studying…) I also met the largest number of new friends since… ASB site reveal?
31`Now that I attended 5 clinics/auditions (in chronological order)—Japanese, Martial arts, Vietnamese, Filipino, and Chinese—it’s really hard to rank my priorities since I wish to attend so many of them!
31`On 11/30 night I went to the Martial Arts clinic again since I didn’t finish on Monday due to a meeting. I eventually ranked my preferences as Chinese Ribbon and Fan first, martial arts and Tinikling second, and Soran Bushi third. Amazingly, my legs no longer sored the next day! (Note on 12/3: I was placed in Tinikling…)
