D5P175-181129
21`Today at my office hours I had a brief talk with 462. I once said she received an offer from Amazon, but now that Facebook also admitted her, she’s going to Facebook! She says the nice part about Facebook is that before deciding which team (and working location) they will place you in, you will first try out a few of the teams before the decision is made. Some other companies just vaguely ask for your preferences before the team placement.
21`462 talks about the other two seniors that she knows get into FB; one is an ABC boy, the other a Chinese girl. She will be attending a 2-month bootcamp starting next June, so there won’t be a summer break; she will only take 10 hours of classes next semester, though. That’s so chill!
11`I’m working hard on the optional extra credit assignment of ISD—133 and 139 have both finished! 462, though, says that she didn’t do the extra assignment and didn’t actually get a top grade for ISD.
14`Last week (Week 14) I was actually not in super good mood, partly because I my study efficiency was low. This caused some psychological problems, but on Sunday night when I was immersed in learning data science and linear algebra, the great sense of achievement reminded me of the golden age last semester when I was happily growing exponentially.
14`After the period of rapid growth last semester, it seems inevitable that much of this semester is spent in a relative bad state, due to the cycle of motivation. Often, I remind myself constantly that I should study, but I won’t actually study, which makes me kind of depressed. Only occasionally would I feel this sense of fierce confidence like that of February 2018.
13`Now I estimate that this semester, the amount of knowledge I studied is only 85% that of '18 Spr, while my course load is somewhere between 105% to 115%. The course load is hard to define; I learned about 15% to 20% of this semester’s contents in the last semester and the summer, and should these still be included when calculating this semester’s work load?
13`I can come up with a metric that measure the absolute and relative course load, with relative course load equal to absolute times (1 – proportion I learned beforehand). Then the absolute course load for G13F, '18 Spr and '18 Fall are 65, 100, and 110. The relative course load are 65, 95, and 90.
11`On 12/3’s 3670 class, I and wqx did a presentation on Neural Networks. I limited my lecture to a bit less than 10 minutes, so that our professor could cover more contents on the take-home final exam. The lecture went pretty well, and later Prof. Hardin complimented on my performance!
21`Btw, wqx is a senior, and since she’s prelaw, she has applied to some law schools over Thanksgiving. I asked yly to take some photos of me during my lecture (for potential future use); she is also a senior, and she’s going to study psychology in grad school. I really got to know a bunch of upperclassmen through this course!
