D5P176-181203
31`Recently I’m still very interested in astronomy, and by now I’m very familiar with all episodes of Crash Course Astronomy. In the series, Phil makes a lot of general observations, skipping the complicated physics behind all the phenomenon. I watched some more technical astrophysics contents, and it’s so much harder to understand.
33`This inspired me on sociology as well. Behind complex social issues, there are extraordinarily complicated reasons. Now, we can understand scientific phenomenon using systematic mathematical tools, and although sometimes scientists will argue over something, usually they can reach the same conclusion following rigorous logic.
33`However, there seem to be much less methodical approaches when people try to understand the cause of a societal problem. There surely is a true explanation, but for people to reach that conclusion, it will require a very large amount of information.
33`Ordinary people only have limited information, so we will reach different conclusions based on the inevitably biased perspective; when people take positions, they are swayed by our own interests as well, making people’s positions even further away from the truth.
14`This semester, a lack of reading of history and literature has caused various problems in my attitude. Last term, the life principles I learned while reading history was crucial in maintaining my motivation. I spend about 15% of the time learning about humanities, but now, I seldom watched Crash Course History/Literature or read our high school history books.
14`Recently, my progress in math and CS is still pretty rapid, but without the spiritual support from reading, it’s extremely easy to find myself depressed, lonely, purposeless, and overthinking about insignificant stuff—as proven many times throughout this year. Now, things are getting serious.
31`Well, I do watch Vsauce a lot, and sometimes also Geography Now, etc., and they do inspire me to think more deeply about life and the world, but these don’t seem to achieve the same effect in terms of giving me faith as reading history.
14`Next semester I must guarantee at least 6 hours of reading every week—whether some good history books or novels like Hunger Games, or watching Crash Course History/Literature. It’s easy to forget the ideal me that I want to become, when all of my focus is getting an impressive internship offer next August.
21`On 12/5 I accidentally encountered 983 and her boyfriend while studying in Tolman. She revealed that Google actually replied her as early as on 10/16 (one day after I submitted my application), and yesterday she has just finished the third interview. I, of course, have no hope hearing back—it’s December now!
22`On 12/6 at noon, I received the rejection letter from Google… The email was sent individually by a Google recruiter, and it offers some very crucial advice: getting good grades comes first, and involvement in CS follows. I thought for a long time whether I should reply to her, but eventually decided it’d be awkward to say anything. Google at least remembers that I applied, though.
