D5P177-181207
11`On 12/6 morning it snowed very briefly. On 12/6, all classes ended, and so are my office hours. For the Tech Comm class, I thought that I didn’t communicate a lot with the professor, so with my grade at the borderline between A- and A, I tried to leave a final good impression on the professor by thanking her and waving goodbye at the end of the class. I finally got a final score of 94 (A), which is pretty good a Writing class with oral presentations!
11`I also had the fourth quiz on 12/6 for Comp Org. This quiz comes just two days before the final exam, which is pretty… exciting. Many concepts in CS-2231 are pretty ambiguous, and although the professor does a good job explaining the general concepts, when solving problems, the ambiguity becomes obvious. Oftentimes, even the terminology is not unified (many confusing names are used to refer to the same concept).
31`On 12/8 it snowed for a while, but it’s not cold enough for it to accumulate. In the evening I went out for dinner with 329 and his friends, which is the first time I stepped out of campus in 16 days—a new record! Recently I’m just too busy and my social life is so bad…
11`The 3670 class has a take-home final that consists of 6 ~ 7 proof problems, due on Dec 12. Some of them are pretty difficult, even after the professor gave some hints in class. I spent many hours reading the textbook and watching relevant YouTube videos.
11`Usually when reading math, I am not worried about any immediate tasks so I will think actively and deeply about the concepts. When I need to derive these formulas, though, intuitions won’t help much and it’s inevitable that I get lost in the pile of symbols and equations. But I admit this is good, rigorous math training.
31`These few days I spent a lot of time watching Crash Course History, and I really love it. This feeling reminds me of the time in 2016 and 2017, when I could immerse myself for days reading history or literature. Contrast that to my state in late November, I begin to question whether I really like CS and Math.
14`Previously, I have found myself increasingly lonely and depressed. This was apparently caused by a lack of social life, but I was no more isolated than in 2016 spring and summer, when I literally talked to only a few of my friends for a few times in half a year. The root cause was prolonged studying of logical subjects like Math and CS.
13`This semester, I only spent a tiny proportion of my time learning humanities. There was a time when I thought I’ve been used to the mathematical mindset, and studying history is unnecessary and a waste of college time since I can learn these after the application season of 2019.
14`But it turns out that the pattern I summarized in the last semester still works. If I don’t read history and politics for even a week, my mental state will deteriorate sharply, causing various kinds of problems that I won’t know how to solve.
14`Of course, it’s not that I won’t study CS and math, and not that I don’t like STEM after all. My bad mental state this semester, compared to my freshman year, has caused me to reflect on how to maintain the balance between the things I like to do and the things I have to do, or between learning humanities and STEM.
13`Overall, my progress in my majors this term has clocked at 90% that of '18 Spr, if not more, but without the motivation restoration system, I’ve become increasingly short-sighted and tired of studying, my faith and determination weakening irresistibly.
14`How I wish I could have another few months of total relaxation, just like that of post-application in 2017! I need time to collect all my experience in the past one year as they happened too fast for me to reflect deeply on it.
14`Of course I won’t. If I take even a few months off now, there will be no way for me to compete against my peers any more. And 2017 is spent learning all those useless things that makes me lagged behind in STEM progress. Look at all those 2022ers! What did they do before coming to college? Studying Math and CS!
21`No, I was kidding. Without that year spent on not learning Math, I won’t have the achievements in 2018. Sometimes I think the job-preparation process is just ridiculous. I started my CS journey in October 2017, and I basically will need to have had an impressive resume and built up extensive networks by the end of summer 2019.
21`That means if I don’t have any quantifiable achievements by 2019, I won’t have a good-looking profile, I won’t get a good offer, and will be placed at a very disadvantageous position in my senior year. (Of course, the financial industry is even more ridiculous.)
21`But what “quantifiable extracurricular achievements” can we possibly have when we are just students? Aren’t we supposed to get a solid foundation in our courses in the first place? And are we allowed time to relax and develop ourselves more as a person than as a technician, under those selection criteria?
