D5P178-181210
34`On 12/10 I felt very dizzy in the morning, but got much better after eating lunch. I guess I was still “low-blood-sugar.” Previously I thought this dizziness is due to bad sleep, but now I think it has more to do with bad eating (I only ate some Chow Mein last night)—now if I don’t get decent nutrition for just one meal, my body will collapse. I think the eating argument better explains my collapse on 11/25 and 26.
21`The CS 2212 final took place in the afternoon; I spent a total of 20 minutes preparing for it. It was pretty hard, but eventually I figured out most of the things. Dai Wei handed in the test in 75 minutes… At night, I and 329 ordered Bamboo Bistro, but our meal was not delivered to us again, and we had to order again…
32`On 12/11 morning temperature dropped to about -6 °C. My phone’s battery couldn’t stand this cold, and it dies down very quickly. I don’t need to worry much about my wake-up time since all my tests are in the afternoon, so I stayed up late; I guess many people think the same way, so even at 3 AM I can still see people on campus.
11`On 12/11 afternoon, I took the ISD final exam. 133 finally didn’t come. 139 only needs a 52 to get an A since he got all of the extra credits of assignment 8, while I need to score a 63.
11`The test wasn’t hard but it’s very intense (since I chose to do all 7 problems but only need 5—our score will be based on the highest 5 scores we get out of 7 problems), so having not eaten breakfast (I got up almost at 11 AM this morning), I almost blacked out when doing the last problem.
11`On 12/12 at noon I finally finished the take-home final for Math 3670, after more than 25 hours of work, and 3 hours before the deadline. One of the problems was ridiculously hard, directly coming from a proof in a professional paper. The proof was very tedious, and doing such problems is really discouraging.
34`I am supposed to be chilling after that, but instead I found myself quite depressed, largely because by now, I cannot get used to any food on campus. Eating is supposed to be an enjoyment for people, but this semester it’s always been so much of a burden on me. I have tried to untangle the reasons for my bad physical and mental conditions this semester, and now it seems that not eating well is the root of the cause-effect chains.
11`I had my last final exam, Math 2420, on 12/14 afternoon. It wasn’t hard, but the computation of power series was quite tedious, and two power series questions was respectively worth 35% * 25% = 8.75% of the final grade!
11`I forgot one crucial definition (about ordinary points), and spent the last half an hour trying to reconstruct the exact definition through pure reasoning, which was successful. Our teacher is strict on grading concept questions, so I nearly lost a lot of points!
13`When preparing for the exam, I thought about how this course (and other math courses) might be taught by giving more intuitive understanding rather than diving directly into the formulas.
11`This finals week has been much more intense than the previous two semesters, so much so that I am placing this semester’s overall course load at 120% that of the last.
34`In the Finals week, my mental state was pretty bad. I’ve struggled to come up with an explanation for my bad state—not eating well? Not sleeping well? Not doing enough sports? Not socializing enough? Living in a single? Not learning enough humanities subjects? Too much academic pressure? Uncertainty about the future?... It seems that each of them is a contributing factor, and it’s really hard to find a root cause (despite some attempts in previous Diaries).
34`Starting at about end of October, I’ve often felt dizzy after getting up in the morning, sometimes with my chest palpitating fiercely; this week is no exception. I’ll usually recover about an hour after breakfast. Because of this, during Weeks 12 and 13, I missed three or four 9 AM discrete classes, and one 9:30 AM Diff Eq class—the first time I’ve missed any classes.
34`I’ve estimated that 10% of the time in this semester is spent battling bad body conditions. Some of the symptoms have appeared since mid-July, and so I don’t know whether the bad food here is a direct cause or if the same thing would happen anyway even if I attend a Chinese college.
34`In terms of symptoms, I seem to be going through another period of frequent panic attacks like that of spring 2007, summer 2010, and winter 2013.
