D5P181-181217
41`On 12/15 night, 671 invited me to dinner with a bunch of other people, and I met 493 accidentally, discovering that her flight back home is exactly the same as mine. Later she agreed to go with me, but on 12/16 morning she couldn’t get things ready on time, so I had to ride alone to the airport.
41`Later did I know that the reason she took so long is because she had to check out her room. She’s going to FB to intern in the next semester, and again at MS next summer! Oh my goodness! Is this another 2015/12/12?!!
41`At SFO, I and 493 went to the gate for our transfer flight together. At first, we talked a lot; she got in FB through networking and Microsoft through the online application. I admired her for being so low-profile about her offer; she replied that she once posted on Moments but thought it inappropriate, thus deleting it.
24`Me: “I have really wanted to post my transcript (D5P105)… after all, I have worked so hard this semester for it. But I should learn from you and not do so.” 493: “Yeah, sometimes I also have an impetus to post my grades, but I still feel like it would hurt others… I don’t think it matters too much, though. If you want to post them, I don’t think that’s a problem.”
41`We later talked about the courses we took respectively. Unfortunately, we soon ran out of topics to talk about, and I felt a bit awkward asking her so many questions. Later we sat down together, and she reviewed her apartment location and talked with her project manager, while I wrote on my Diary.
41`493 was not in good condition throughout the trip; she looked messy, as she had had little sleep in the past 3 days. This had some effects on my impression on her, but still, I decided that it’s now or never to write a formal love letter to her, as I won’t see her again in 8 months. I originally planned to write such a letter on her 21st birthday.
41`I completed the first draft on my phone in English in about 3 hours. Later I thought that it’d be unrealistic for us to be together now, so I removed the part asking if we can get together, and replaced it with my determination to catch up on her by her graduation.
41`So, on the flight to Shanghai, I revised the first draft, also removing contents that flatter her excessively. Then I stripped some pages off of my Google notebook, and wrote the second draft in Chinese. It’s awkward to write things on a plane, and I don’t have any beautiful piece of paper that I could write on. I was still satisfied with my handwriting, though. The second draft was originally planned to be the final product, but I quickly found that I need to proofread it many times and revise continuously.
41`Summary of the love letter by paragraph:
41`(1) congratulates her for the internships;
41`(2) reveals how I implemented the 500-Day Plan since January to catch up on her progress in classes;
41`(3) a summary of how I got to like her and how my feelings for her evolved over the 14 months;
41`(4) I know I couldn’t provide any help or guidance to her, and there’s no reason for her to like me, but I’ll still strive to become someone she looks up to by our graduation.
41`After completing the letter, I would feel differently each time I read through it, and often I feel some of the content is out of place, but since I only have so limited time, there’s no point aiming at perfection, and I don’t want to overthink about every single sentence. I added some simple decorations on the letter, and sealed the letter in an envelope that I just made with paper and tape. Later I thought I seem to be still placing myself in an excessively inferior position, but that’s justifiable, since I was so shocked by the news that for some time after that my frame of mind was like in the 12/12 Incident.
41`After arriving at Shanghai, I met her again at the baggage claim. Awkwardly, there still wasn’t much to talk about, and she just listened to music. After we exited, she was greeted by her family, while I had to head to another terminal to a connecting flight back to Nanjing. At that moment, I gave her the letter.
14`On 12/19, realizing that I still achieved a 4.0 GPA with 18 + 4 hours of courses this semester, and that I only need 40 more credits to graduate, I made up my mind to graduate in 3 years. I spent the rest of the day recovering from the depression caused by the severe academic pressure, through watching historical books and TV series.
42`For days after that, I didn’t contact 493 again. With my confidence and motivation restored, I devoted myself into preparing for the job application season next year (I signed up for Leetcode.com). I know it’s still risky to set her as my goal—recall how I mentally collapsed multiple times when under pressure last semester? But at least for winter break, it’s a powerful source of motivation.
(word count for '18 Fall diary: 18667)
(Follow up: D5P187)
