D5P182-181223
12`As in Thanksgiving, in the winter break—with no pressure and plenty of good food, and thus a (physically and mentally) healthy body, I devoted myself to the ELR Project.
12`The katex.js library is really poorly documented, and by now I can still only use it in a very awkward way—use a different class to represent a katex text object for each math formula I want to display. Of course, I still cannot do transformation animations between different math formula texts, which is a big obstacle.
12`Yesterday (12/22) I also discarded the original class hierarchy—making each animation object a child class of a base class that contain a layer of canvas, since I decided it’s not necessary to have those extra canvases.
12`The videos will be explaining linear algebra concepts, and it also needs linear algebra concepts to make the animations—rotation matrices and projection matrices.
12`I’m still having many problems with my code’s structure. If I place all classes in separate files, there will be way too many files; but if not, it is sometimes hard to find the code for class I want to change.
12`On 12/27 I finished my Brainy Logo video, and the progress of the project is far faster than I originally thought. I downloaded Bandicam to capture the canvas as a video, and used Windows Movie Maker to integrate and finalize my video (although the size of the output video will be nearly a hundred times that of Bandicam’s recorded video—I’m still thinking about whether there is better video editing software.)
31`During the break, 359, 329, and zxt, who were in CS-2201 last semester, asked me for additional CS resources.
32`On 12/27 I switched to the new iPhone X and gave my original iPhone 6 to my younger sister, so much of my previous WeChat chat history is lost, although most of the other data is preserved on the cloud. It’s necessary to change my phone in China, since when reinstalling many Chinese apps, it requires my Chinese phone number.
32`On 12/30 I and Mom toured Suzhou’s Tongli, and it happened to snow there. On 12/31 we toured Jinji Lake, bought the book A Global History which I plan to read next semester, and then went to Shanghai.
12`On 12/29 I started working on the 3D scenes of my project. During the trip to Suzhou/Shanghai I continue to think about how to calculate rotation matrices, how to write the script, how to cooperate with other YouTubers, etc.
33`After staying in China for two weeks, the extensive propaganda has cleansed me of many capitalist ideas that are influenced by American public opinion. I like the environment created by the political propaganda, since it gives people a sense of unity and a motivation to work harder.
33`I am also gaining a deeper understanding of what it means for China to be a nation-state. In the US, people make a lot of efforts trying to balance representation of different peoples in ads, movies, and the workforce, but Chinese society is very homogenous—even across such a vast landscape!
31`On 1/1 0:00 I sent 2019 New Year wishes to 982, 329, 493, and 979 in my Shanghai hotel near Jing’an Temple.
