D5P183-181225
34`In the first one week of winter break, I fell in love with linear algebra and made major progress in my ELR Project. However, starting 12/24, I gradually couldn’t get used to the food, and my health deteriorated, my sleep quality decreased.
34`The pain of the finals week of last semester really had a powerful effect on my mental state, sometimes causing me to fear coursework for some reason, especially when I’m not feeling well physically. I shouldn’t be under so much pressure and was just too freaked out about things that won’t actually happen.
14`It’s not that my attitude was so much better in '18 Spr. In that semester I was also freaked out about my grades, dreaming about crashing on exams many times. However, this semester, much of my anxiety is caused by physiological reasons, and coupled with other factors I discussed earlier, I felt much worse than in '18 Spr.
34`12/25 I talked with Mom about my physical conditions. On 12/27 she bought a bunch of kitchen things for me to bring to the US.
34`Now on some days I still feel pretty weak and dizzy in the morning, which may or may not get better as the days go by. When that happens, I will be very vulnerable to any stimuli or pressure, and I will feel very painful if I think about my grades or future prospects, developing intense fear about my coursework, my confidence disappearing. Such was the case in about 10~15% of the days in the previous semester, and it occurred periodically.
34`I shouldn’t give myself so much pressure and was just too freaked out about things that won’t actually happen. However, last semester, the reason I still experienced that huge pressure and anxiety was more physiological than psychological, which made me much more difficult to adjust and caused a vicious cycle. If I’m very healthy, I believe I would not be depressed but will instead be very narcissistic, like in the first 3 months of 2018.
34`It’s not that my attitude and eating habits were so much better in '18 Spr. In that semester, I was also freaked out about my grades, often dreaming about crushing on exams, and I also couldn’t get enough to eat (D5P141-180508: “I’ve almost never made my stomach full throughout the last semester”).
34`However, this semester, a variety of factors greatly worsened the effects of academic pressure and bad eating habits (See also: D5P178-181210):
34`(1) my body quality worsened drastically beginning in July 2018, with much more frequent onsets of what seemed like low blood sugar;
34`(2) my sleep quality decreased and became more irregular;
34`(3) my pressure increased from '18 Spr, as my course load increased and I spend more time thinking about jobs;
34`(4) my social life and involvements in activities decreased by almost a third compared to '18 Spr;
34`(5) I didn’t spend as much time learning history… (My walking distance is about the same as in '18 Spr, so not doing enough sports wasn’t a contributing factor.)
31`Last semester, Vsauce, Crash Course Astronomy and Crash Course History were my biggest companions at lunch/dinner. I felt quite bad after exhausting them, so next semester I can try out some Chinese entertainment resources such as TV series or shows.
34`During the break, as I stay at the comfortable Zhenjiang home, I am gradually recovering from the final weeks and giving myself positive mental suggestions about the things I look forward in the next semester: the dances, ASB, the lunch at 2301, my friends, meeting 3b1b and Cary…
34`However, due to excessive sleeping and lying, I’ve felt quite sleepy during the day by the end of December, and my body quality declined. By 12/27 I’ve been sleeping at as late as 1 AM.
34`I read my Diary in Dec. 2016 and Jan. 2017, when I encountered similar situations—excessive sleeping caused tiredness and dizziness. Somehow, starting from Feb. 2017, I no longer complain about my body, only making occasional reference to my sleep quality.
34`Next semester, I should no longer worry much about studies and should instead focus much more on keeping my mental and physical health. Remember what I said last semester? “Often, I remind myself constantly that I should study, but I won’t actually study, which makes me kind of depressed” (D5P175-181129). I’m already highly motivated, so spending that time doing effective relaxation or making dinner for myself would be a better choice!
