D5P185-190108
12`By the time I arrived at the US, the bulk of the animations for my video is completed, and the only work left is to refine my script, narrate the script, sync the audio with the animations, and render the final video. This syncing business is pretty tedious—and a lot of the code is used only to determine the time for each animation, but I guess every project has a tedious part.
12`On 1/6 I downloaded a free video-editing software (OpenShot); on 1/7 I downloaded 3ds Max and made some beautiful models for my 3d scenes. By now I should have spent about 100 hours on the videos, which is lower than I first expected, and my progress is ahead of schedule.
14`I’m feeling pretty confident at the start of the semester, as the most intense semesters have passed and I can focus on my exciting project more. The courses I’m taking this semester are all mostly male, which is pretty disappointing. It’s not that no girls are learning Math/CS—there are a lot of them, but my progress is too fast compared to them. That’s why LNYF dances are important.
11`On 1/8 I changed my expected graduation date to 2020. I did not, however, manage to change my status to junior, which means that I will be graduating as a junior if I graduate after Spring 2020. Since I won’t be able to register for classes early, it’s doubtful whether the 3-year-graduation plan would work, which is quite bad news.
21`Now the question is whether I should apply for internships or directly apply for jobs next semester… Anyway, I can always apply for graduate school next year this time, and if I get into something like CMU, I may be in the same college with my high school friends again, which would be amazing!
12`On 1/7, 8, and 9, since I’m getting up very early, I spend my morning time doing the narration and editing the video. I think I’m doing pretty well in terms of narration in most cases, although sometimes I tend to speak fast. This is a really good speaking practice, but narration is hard! Look at all those Crash Course Outtakes videos!
12`Now I’m not thinking about coding some meaningful code…
11`On 1/8 after attending CS-1151, I decided that I probably won’t take it this semester. There are a total of 9,000 words of essays to write, and that’s only half the work! We have quizzes, debates, presentations… I feel very unmotivated to take this class, even though the professor is a good lecturer. I just want to take it in the final semester and
11`There are many active students in Ethics class, who have insightful ideas about those ethical questions posted by the professor, while I can’t be so responsive. I could have trained myself on those humanities subjects just like I did with my CS skills, so I’m not worried about this deficiency of me.
14`After the reform on my study system a year ago, I am now very prone to learn math and CS, and resist taking humanities courses here. Part of the reason is that I am very satisfied with my A’s in all STEM classes, and fear I would crash my grades on those humanities courses.
11`On 1/9 I decided to enroll in a Deutsch class and dropped the ethics class. This is the first time I’ve ever been to Furman Hall, and the class turned out pretty exciting (although the textbook is ridiculously expensive). Learning a Second Foreign Language is quite a different experience from all the CS and Linear Algebra stuff that I’m used to, and it can help fulfill my “15% goal!” (The ratio of time spent learning humanities VS STEM must be at least 1 : 5)
11`Another class has passed, and my impression on the German class is super good. The professor is nice, the class is fun, and the homework—although there’s a lot of them—is actually a good relax from other math/CS courses. Learning a new language is not only super practical (based on my experience in Japan a week ago), but can also help me reinforce some everyday English expressions, which I’m still not super proficient at.
11`I got into the waitlist of CS-3270 on 1/11 night, but I don’t think I will take it, since that would mean taking a total of 18 hours. On 1/11 24:00, all waitlists are emptied. Subsequently, on 1/12, an empty spot appeared in CS-3250, so I dropped Math-3620 to enroll in it! Oh yes!! How amazing…
13`By now I still can’t have super sustained focus when reading data structures and algorithms. That’s when motivation is necessary. Now it’s really hard to transition from math to coding, under the powerful influence of 3b1b. This inability to concentrate reminds me of how important 3b1b’s videos are. Now I can immerse myself in learning linear algebra for hours, and that’s largely due to his videos.
