D5P189-190128
11`On 1/27 afternoon I very accidentally met 026, and then happily studied with him in a math classroom. I didn’t have homework so I reviewed some CS-3250 stuff and worked on ELR. I should spend less time study alone and more time study together, as the benefits on my mood and mind are just so obvious.
22`On 1/28 I invited 983 to the Career Fair. In the afternoon I (hastily) added the ELR Project to my resume and changed my graduation date to May 2020 on it. I learned that 983 has changed her graduation date to Dec 2020.
22`I seemed to be the only one wearing sports clothes and shoes; 565, 139, and 133 all dressed pretty formally. I only printed 3 copies of my resume, while 983 forgot to print any. 565 brought a very colorful and carefully crafted resume, while mine...? It’s pretty dull and poorly organized (with all the titles filling up too much space).
22`I and 983 talked to some recruiters at the fair. Some are nice, some less so. I submitted an online application to Amazon, although 495 told me in the morning that no Chinese international students received Amazon internships. I later showed 983 my Chapter 1 video, and she was really impressed.
22`Later a senior boy told us that Microsoft has started a new round of hiring and will be on campus in mid-Feb, and I (and 983) for the first time discovered we can actually apply (to many jobs) through our school’s website. That upperclassman told us that as long as you submit a resume, you will be offered an on-campus interview!
22`Later I found that I couldn’t resubmit my resume. This is pretty bad news, since I lost 8 more days to refine it… I just submitted it so hastily. I don’t know if it’s advantageous to submit early; the timeline doesn’t indicate so.
12`Now I’m pretty involved in my project—I originally scheduled Chapter 2 to be released on Friday, Mar. 1, but now things are progressing so quickly that I might be able to complete it in mid-Feb.
22`However, since there’s no point adding things to my resume now, I should probably pause the project and refocus myself on coding questions in the next 3 weeks.
22`One reason that counselor agencies may be useful is they can help me keep track of which companies I applied to. Once in my Algorithms class, I saw a Muslim girl (previously my colleague in CS-2201 TA, name forgotten) using an excel sheet to do so. That’s a really good practice!
31`Later I and 983 went to Rand for dinner, and we met 982 and 026. That’s really amazing—we are the Big Four in our grade (in terms of GPA)! Today we finally have the chance to sit together!
21`I took a sneak at 983’s resume. Besides her research and TA experience, she actually put on many of her school projects in CS-3251 and Web Dev.
14`I told 983 that in my heart, 982, 026, 983, and myself are what’s in my heart the “Big Four” of our grade. I have this ranking in mind so that I could motivate myself—I would aim at the 2nd place, for example. 983 says that I may not know other very competent people. Well, based on my experience as a TA, it’s unlikely that I missed many people.
22`Then, 979 invited me to a session held by a WST-like Chinese enterprise (Lai-offer). The lecturer is pretty experienced and knowledgeable, and I actively answered some of his questions about coding interviews. The event is good since I learned more about the job application process. However, I missed another Facebook “Cracking Your Code Interview” session. Well, my resume is too bad anyways…
31`979 says that she would have to invite people one by one to this activity (and that she hasn’t slept last night, working on homework and VUCSSA sponsors).
42`She also sent me another heart after I agreed, which I find quite confusing since at the lecture (where I sat with her), I saw there’s a person she calls “husband” in her WeChat contact list. Well, my mind is (still) very obsessed with 493 now and I don’t really care about 979.
24`Occasionally I would encounter 979 during lunch at Rand, and she would talk about the people in her extensive network (to her roommate Melanie, not me…). I admire her for knowing so much people, although there is a risk that knowing many people won’t be transferred to real benefits. I’m thinking about maybe asking 979 to help me promote my ELR Project through any dashen or someone she knows.
24`Speaking of promotion: to gain more attention, I would need to produce contents at a faster rate. Recalling my experience at Balance Bar and Soccer Bar 6~7 years ago, I know being prolific and active is a key to success. This means that my video length should be shorter; I may feel reluctant to publish the slightly lower-quality videos, but I shouldn’t focus too much on quality without regards to quantity either.
24`Another thing about publishing more videos is that many channels have certain one or two videos that got super popular, seemingly randomly.
31`After the event I went to the Tinikling practice. The movements become much quicker today, and I sweated for the first time in any practices. My muscle memories are slow to develop, as I need more practice than many others to get the movements. Right now, I’m spending a lot of time on these activities. I know it’d be boring if I graduate only learning Math and CS, so it’s good to spend the first two months of G14S relaxing a bit.
