D5P190-190129
22`On 1/29, after I accidentally heard Microsoft is coming tonight, I made a massive revision to the style of my resume and added my CS-3251 course project onto it. Later at the event a recruiter told me that I will need to also apply at Microsoft’s own website, which I then did. I dropped my resume to her, but then forgot to record her name…
22`Indeed, when filling out an application, I would need to enter a lot of information, so that’s how I could have known DoreWays alone isn’t enough. (Similarly, on 1/30 I received a follow-up email from Amazon notifying me to apply on their own website.)
22`When Prof. Roth posted this event on Piazza, he added that recruiters are very interested in hiring summer interns for 2020. I misread this as 2019, and was only later informed that they’re not quite interested in 2019 summer interns now.
14`Well, now that the odds of getting in dramatically decreased, should I readjust my strategy and refocus on the ELR Project?
22`On 1/29 afternoon I also went to the Amazon info session. I looked at Amazon’s job page, and found that I have a “incomplete application...”? Why didn’t I submit it? I forgot... Well, although it’s apparently too late, my profile is in their system anyway. So, don’t forget to check the Amazon jobs dashboard sometimes. Hopefully I get at least that link to the coding skills assessment stage.
22`One thing I realized now is that the job application cycle seems longer than I originally thought. Neither did I know about the “spring job-seeking season”. This misconception caused me to stop applying to any companies since I thought they stopped accepting people since October, but it turns out that I missed many more chances of at least trying. I should have continued to seek for jobs in the winter break, and although I didn’t yet have my ELR project on my resume, I could actually update my resume later…
22`I also took a glimpse at Clara Ho’s resume, which was organized into two columns and there are cute icons attached to each title such as education, skills, links, etc. That’s way more likable than mine!... (Well, I later also read about advice encouraging simple designs and against excessively beautiful resumes…)
31`On 1/29 night I also had dinner with Lauren (and her friends), a freshman ABC who I met originally at Commons and then at tech events yesterday and today. We had a nice talk, although I still feel quite a big cultural gap.
21`Indeed, as I meet new friends, I really begin to question whether it’s necessary to graduate so early. If I stay for one more year, I’m bound to land in a dream job. Graduating one year early is just such a long shot, and recently I’ve thought about the worst-case scenarios—not getting either a good job nor a good grad school offer, in which case I might just take a gap year (can I still stay at school for research or stuff?).
14`Now all of my decisions are based on my change of graduation date, and many of my friends have known about this. Of course, I wouldn’t have chosen to graduate early were it not for 493.
42`I routinely gain motivation from thinking about 493 but haven’t actually contacted her for a month or told anyone else that I like her. Sometimes I would think too much about her, but as long as I maintain an active social life and eat well, I can generally maintain a good attitude.
32`Am 30. Jan, es schneite. In Chicago, temperature dropped below 30 degrees C and classes are suspended.
34`This week my health condition is exceptionally good; although I’m not sleeping much, I am eating a lot.
31`Recently I spent much more time than the last semester reading history and learning world cultures (particularly Europe). I am intensely interested in WWII and the present and future of Europe.
14`This rapid increase of spiritual level and depth of thought is quite a different kind of growth from technical skills, and sheds light on my motivation system and long-term life goals back in G13S.
11`I graded ISD assignment 1 on 1/31 night, in just 2 hours! This is so much easier than TAing for CS2201…

