D5P191-190203
33`Recently I’ve been very interested in the history of the Third Reich. I learned much about the philosophy of Hitler and the motives behind it. I’ve watched der Untergang; I also watched dozens of Hitler rants on both YouTube and Bilibili, and it’s super entertaining.
33`Just as I was fascinated by the history of our People’s Republic back in late 2017, the story of German people standing up from the ruins of their broken country after WW2 has inspired me in my recent life. Chinese people generally view Germans very favorably, although not vice versa.
33`As I read/watch more about the distinct culture and history of Western countries, I hold Germany as my favorite Western state. I believe that apart from Chinese and Japanese people, the Germans are the most industrious, humble, and creative nation in the world.
33`Germany, like modern China, is also a latecomer to the world history stage, but is now a major world power. I find an intense echo with their experience and quality, in contrast to other long-time roles on the world stage like France and Britain.
14`Just as the history of the PRC inspired me tremendously in G13F, the history of Germany also interests me and inspires me in recent times. Now my time spent learning humanities versus science is almost 1:4, much more than last semester which was less than 1:15.
33`I feel it’s a tragedy that Germans are denies so many political rights. Yes, they committed a ton of atrocities during the WWII, but the other colonial powers weren’t much better—look at what Britain did to its colonies over the centuries, including during WWII! And who still remembers the tens of millions of Native Americans and Australians that European colonizers killed, directly or indirectly?
33`But it might be exactly because of this misfortune that Germans can work hard quietly and humbly to achieve what they have today. It’s like how Christians’ mindset that everyone has a sin encourages them to go good deeds. Look at the (relatively) lazy and presumptuous French people! However, I might still learn some French in the next few semesters since it’s still quite useful.
11`I changed my phone’s language settings to German this week, and since WeChat and YouTube both support German, I’m having much more difficulty (and trouble…) using my phone. But I still get to push myself out of my comfort zone and learn a lot.
11`Compared to English, German has somewhat more irregular word forms to memorize. (Well, I heard French has even more.) Coupled with the fact that it has 4 quite annoying special letters, I feel that it’s less suitable than English for a world language. (Especially in the context of programming and engineering.)
13`I feel a little not confident in learning German, since my English speaking skills remain pretty bad even after so many years, due to relatively little practice. How could I improve my English oral skills?
12`On 2/1 night I tried to narrate my ELR Chapter 2 in a Stevenson 4 classroom. It didn’t go well, since there are so many techniques involved. I have a hard time getting everything pronounced correctly at the same time. I need to make my volume consistent while paying attention to the pace and tone—the tone part is the hardest! Should I be calm or passionate, and how fast should I speak? Should I stand or sit?—it’s so tiring to stand and speak...
21`Added on 2/5: when I relistened to the recording on 2/1, I find that it’s really awkward and really seem like reading off of the script. I tried again and got a satisfactory recording in 2 times. It turns out the more times I record, the more unnatural I would become.
21`As to promotion, I have thought about talking with professors like Lori Rafter, Douglas Hardin, and ask for their advice and promotion. I believe that after the first 5 chapters are finished, if I contact 3b1b again, he will finally reply. Look at how little attention some of the most famous organizations got when they are just starting! Growth is exponential, but it’s still so far away. Apart from Reddit, I want to search for alternate platforms to promote my videos.
31`On 1/30 night I encountered Ariel Herrera, and had a nice talk with him. We share an intense interest in science YouTube videos: 3b1b, Mathologer, Numberphile, Infinite Series, Space Time... He invited me to a study session for Algorithms with his friends Alex and Matthew. His friends seem a bit arrogant at first, but when I left, they were very friendly. Ariel invited me to study with them in the future!
34`On 2/5 and 2/6 my sleep went really badly, and I feel dizzy throughout the day.
32`On 2/6 night there was thunderstorm and flooding alerts, as the sirens were off everywhere. Temperature dropped by 27 °C on 2/7.
