D5P192-190205
42`After being sent hearts again on 1/29, I have thought a lot about 979 for the past one week. Although I didn’t have much feelings at the spot, as I think about this affair, I’ve been less able to control myself. Tonight, I’m finally free enough to try to record my feelings. And write a draft for a letter for 979.
42`I might not be supposed to think about this, but there’s also another voice telling me I shouldn’t miss this chance. Since February, as of 2/7, as my sleep quality is still very bad, I’ve actually dreamed of 979 four times, which is unprecedented.
42`It’s very easy for my emotions to go out of control since it’s hard to resist one of the most beautiful girls in our school. For almost one and a half years, suppressing my feelings for 979 and strengthening my emotions for 493 has been a political correctness in my Diary, as I believe that my academic momentum would be impeded otherwise.
43`My belief is not without reason. If I chose to chase 979 back in Oct. 2017, then I would almost certainly be severely distracted and the golden age of Spring 2018 would not have happened.
43`I have a tendency to associate 979 with 621, who—even after two years—remains a rather (actually the most) negative figure in my emotional history. At first glance, my stories with those two girls share a lot of similarities. But will the ending be the same? Although the stories seem similar, 979 has quite a different personality than 621.
42`I'm writing a letter to 979, but it's a truly daunting task. I still have to keep as calm and emotionless as I can when I think about this, since it’s easy to get excited and to start imagining what being together with her would be like, but don’t forget what happened with 621. I know. It’s hard to resist. But try your best!!
43`How do I address what appears to be her affection without sounding like I’m taking it for granted? How do I show that I’m open for love without sounding like I won’t actually treat it seriously? How do I deal with the conflict of spending effort maintaining a relationship and my academic pursuits?
24`Here’s some things I want to address: I admire her for her dance, her organization of huge events like the Spring Festival gala on 2/2. Her personality is also exceptional.
24`While she has an extensive social life and knows a lot of interesting people, I am taking a different route: social contraction, and focus on the actual enhancement of abilities in the hope of attracting similarly competent people in my field naturally.
24`My strategy resulted in very rapid academic improvement, but it is not without its disadvantage. The prolonged social isolation and focus on technology has caused my EQ to decline drastically and caused me to care little about my friends. When I looked at her WeChat main page to try to know her better, I do realize that 979’s social skills and popularity is beyond what I can attain in a short time.
41`Because of our starkly different life routes, I really don’t have many topics to talk with her. For a long time, our chat history is composed almost exclusively of she asking me CS/math questions.
24`As I mentioned last November, 979 seems to place herself at an inferior position, although our relative positions are not comparable, and I feel unduly flattered. I spent too much time studying and not enough time caring about my friends, I don’t care about my appearance, and my EQ has declined sharply. (If I have time, I really wish I should read more novels or watch more TV shows like Chu & Han.) But I’m willing to do everything I can to learn how to be a better companion.
42`I also want to emphasize that she should stop sending me those love symbols if she does have a boyfriend now. If I accept them as signs of love then I would risk being narcissistic, otherwise I would risk being stupid, indifferent, and apathetic. I don’t know whether she’s actually single now, and I don’t want to know.
43`As a final reminder to myself, the best kind of intimacy is built on strong mutual admiration—if that is the basis of a relationship, there would be no obstacle that we can’t overcome.
41`On 2/7 night, I finished the letter to 979 using about 3 hours, with about 500 Chinese characters in length. The path ahead of me is unknown but exciting. Depending on her reaction, it might break the 3-year dominance of 457’s shadow on my attitude to love.
43`These days when I think about 979, my attitude experienced some fluctuations, but it’s less intense as I try to keep my attitude calm like “I and 979 aren’t supposed to be together anyway.” This week, since I spent one whole night writing the Diary about 979, and another writing the letter to her, I failed to work on the ELR Project. Isn’t the latter kind of more important?
(follow-up in D5P195)
