D5P193-190208
14`Now I don’t think as much about my future as I did before 2/5, which is both good and bad. When I did, it actually didn’t contribute much to my motivation since late January, but instead resulted in a decrease in faith as I constantly remind myself of how difficult it is to graduate in 3 years and land in a dream job.
14`This is like the last term when I mentioned “I think a lot about how I should study but won’t actually study, which affects my confidence much”. Thinking about 979 actually brought about an important confidence boost, at a time when my original source of support—the ELR Project—is fading, as my video only gained 257 views as of now.
14`Recently the course load isn’t heavy, and I guess I’m just in a sort of irresistible “recession cycle” when my efficiency is low and my motivation will be restored later. A year ago, a large portion of my motivation came from reading about the great human minds. Now I still spend a lot of time reading history, but this offered no more strong faith.
32`From 2/7 to 2/9 as I was extremely sleepy during the day, I watched the German series Unsere Mütter, Unsere Väter, which is very thought provoking and I spend much time reflecting on topics like war, history, and friendship. On 2/9 I visited the EBI dorms for the first time, and it’s really beautiful.
24`My sleep collapsed again recently. By 2/14 my average sleep time in this semester is only 7.32 hours, and often with low quality. Often, I go to bed quite early but couldn’t fall asleep until 2 or 3. The effects are becoming obvious as I would feel very dizzy after studying for just one or two hours. Sometimes I feel I’m sleepy except during 23:00 to 2:00, which is ridiculous…
11`On 2/12 night I finished CS-3250 homework 3. The 4 problems are super hard, and it took me about 12 hours of research and thinking to (barely) finish all problems. I really enjoy the exploration process, and finished the earliest amongst my Chinese counterparts, independently. Throughout 2/12, I held hot discussions with 466 about the problems.
13`The previous one week was one of the most inefficient, and I probably wasn’t even spending as much time on studying as I did back in winter break. My self-control declined sharply and I was pretty anxious about it. Maybe it’s also partly because I haven’t had a break of more than 2 days in the past 6 months. Now, I can feel a spontaneous, rapid recovery of my motivation and state.
14`I believe that the initial failure of the ELR Project should take the blame. In the previous few months it provided a powerful stimulus, so when I didn’t get the success and attention I imagined, my motivation declined rapidly.
22`On 2/15 during lunch with Steven (a xuedi from Beijing), I was informed, by sheer accident, of two super important news: (1) the Data Science Institute is opening a research program this summer—at night I sent an email to Prog. Hardin asking for his sponsorship. (2) Physics Girl is coming to campus on 2/28! What a chance to promote my project!
