D5P194-190213
22`I finally was not invited to be interviewed by Microsoft. I later applied to a ML position at Apple, completing my applications to all Big Fives (Google, Facebook, Microsoft, Amazon, Apple) in this application season.
31`On 2/13 we Tinikling dancers had our 3/4 checkpoint, and it was pretty tiring. There’s a part where I have to knee very down and then stand up quickly, and I always have an intense dizziness for a few seconds. Alas, my body quality…
31`On 2/15 night I recorded my song for the first stage of Voice of Vanderbilt contest. After a failed attempt at Viva La Vida, I chose I Really Like You and did pretty well. On 2/17 night I attended an extra Tiniking practice and met 979, who complimented on my song; later we had a super good talk on WeChat, and for the first time we talked fervently about non-academic topics over the phone (the Wandering Earth)! But I haven’t given her the letter written on 2/7 yet…
21`On 2/19 I finished the Chapter 2 video. I added Xu Mengyuan’s song PDD as BGM, but have to convert it to .wmv first, or else OpenShot would crash. On 2/20 I changed my YouTube channel name to Jazon Math, which is weird but better than the original. Since I failed to create a brand channel at first, I have to give a “Last Name” to my channel. Still, today I created a brand channel called “Jazon”—should I upload in there?
14`On 2/20 I also briefly updated my LinkedIn profile. At this stage, I have reached a real bottleneck of my personal development. There are few things that excites me, few new opportunities to open my mind. I am stuck in a consistent state of relative low mood and decline of motivation. In particular, I’ve exhausted most of the interesting YouTube videos (especially 3b1b’s) now, and I am meeting few new friends.
14`As I continue to on my bad state during February, I’ve had a better idea of what’s really going on now. I’ve talked a lot about my pain because of encountering bottlenecks in my academic progress.
13`I lacked motivation and self-control, my sleep quality is very bad, and I used up all good study resources, so many times I could only learn what I’ve learned before, without gaining as many new insights.
14`Additionally, while during the winter break, I was making very rapid progress in project ELR, now what’s left to do is just some boring work such as narrating and adjusting animation time. Because of all these, the strong sense of confidence and faith that are crucial to my academic life are now gone.
31`On 2/22 I published my second video on 3b1b reddit. I plan to publish Chapter 1 on the Statistics reddit maybe this Sunday since there are more people there. The total number of views on my channel almost doubled in a day, reaching 450, and so is my subscribers. I later learned that people tend to watch more of these videos during the weekdays—that’s why 3b1b shifted his videos’ publication days from Friday to Sunday!
12`The thing about the ELR project is that it needs to be continuous to be most efficient. There are a lot of details that I need to remember about my library. If I restart the project after a long pause, I can forget what I’ve done before and I can make all sorts of unwise decisions—such as forgetting that I’ve already implemented some functionality and so rewriting it.
