D5P195-190223
31`On 2/22 I attended the LNYF dress rehearsal. During the intermission, 979 said she wanted to shout my name but forgot my English name. I later replied by shouting out her English name when she was performing K-pop. After the rehearsal ended, I handed the letter written on 2/7 to 979. By then, 979 had been one of my best friends and we talk many times throughout the week, although we don’t meet each other much.
42`I was quite nervous after that, but my rationality tells me that it’s a very correct decision anyway. The letter would either be an end of a confusion or the start of an intimate relationship.
41`Several hours later, 979 sent me a pretty long reply and apologized about using excessively intimate words and emojis. So… the former is correct.
42`It’s fortunate that I wrote the letter earlier; had I written it this week, I might have assumed the latter without addressing the possibility of the former, which would be really arrogant. About a day after her reply, my mind was filled with 493 again.
31`Several days ago, two people in the Tinikling dance organized a secret group chat about sending gifts to our 4 amazing choreographers (there are a total of 25 people in the dance—16 for Singil, 24 for Tinikling). They finally decided to send them bamboos to signify the bamboo sticks of our dance.
31`On 2/22 night’s dress rehearsal, we secretly signed four cards for them. In the afternoon of 2/23, after the Tinikling’s extra stage time, we organized the gifts on a table in Langford’s lobby to serve as a surprise to them. Pam was so excited that she burst into tears—she’s always been pretty emotional... Christy, one of the choreographers for Singil, wasn’t present, though. We gave the three choreographers a very big hug.
31`On 2/23 we attended the LNYS showcase! The show started at 19:30. I didn’t eat much for dinner, so although I was excited and not at all nervous, I was kind of shaking before the first dance (6th in the show, Vietnamese), but after I got on stage everything became good. After it ended, I quickly changed my outfit for Tinikling (8th in the show), and this dance also went really well.
31`Afterwards, the girls at Vietnamese dance also organized a card for the choreographer, Rose. The showcase is a really fun and meaningful celebration! Anyway, now it’s time to refocus on studies!
31`Later many people complimented on my performance, including 698, who came to my room on 2/24 evening for CS-3251 help—many people, mostly girls from our grade, went to me for help in the weekend since Project 3 is due on 2/24…
