D5P196-190226
22`On 2/26 I applied to the DSI – SRP program under the sponsorship of Prof. Akram Aldroubi, after spending an afternoon looking at his lab info and writing the 800-word essays. Hope I could get in!
34`On Feb 28, 2019, Physics Girl came to campus and gave a lecture on “using videos in science outreach”. Last night my sleep went really badly, as I had a long nap in the evening, and so I was wide awake until 4 AM. In order to keep a good state in the afternoon, I had to miss the second morning class to make up for my sleep.
34`BTW, while lying on the bed late at night, since I missed dinner, I was so hungry that I felt a dizziness like last semester. I haven’t had this feeling for a while, as I’m eating very well now, my weight increasing from 51 kg three months ago to nearly 54 kg now.
31`Back to Diana’s lecture… I wanted to ask her how to promote a video, but her lecture covered these topics perfectly. She said she has no idea how to make videos viral since these seem so random and unpredictable, but she discussed how curiosity, novelty, and excitement are the key factors of viral science videos using her own examples. Indeed, maybe I should change my video titles to be more interesting…
31`During the lecture, the audience was super reactive. There were as many grad students and professors as undergrads in the hall. Diana asked questions like “have you been making videos” and “who here knows 3blue1brown”, and tons of people raised their hands!
31`One time, she asked if anyone wanted to do an experiment with her. I hesitated, while another Indian boy immediately raised his hand. He collaborated with Diana and partially recreated the scenes in her and 3b1b’s vortex video. I really regret being so obtuse, and decide I should take more initiative!
31`So, after the lecture ended, I immediately rushed to her. But the entire lecture hall suddenly went silent and everyone was kind of staring at me. I looked at the crowd: “Uh… I was gonna take a photo…” “Oh yeah of course!” answered Diana.
31`Before taking the photo, Diana complimented on my jacket, and that’s really nice of her! The photo turned out awkward, as the person taking the photo was standing on the steps on the lecture hall and was looking down on us…
31`“I am an aspiring YouTuber! I have made a library in…” Diana was surprised and complimented on me, but then she was immediately drawn to other people as there were several other people surrounding her.
31`At the time, another very famous science YouTuber, Destin from SmarterEveryDay, also came. This is completely unexpected to me. I’ve heard of SmarterEveryDay a lot, and watched some of his videos, but haven’t subscribed to his channel yet. (Actually, the first time I heard of his channel was from the Kurzgesagt video on Facebook stealing video views, but I soon realized that I shouldn’t mention this on the grounds of EQ…)
31`So, I went to talk to Destin, who was having a conversion with an Indian senior boy Raunak, who’s been running a psychology YouTube channel for 4 years. He’s pretty popular, having over 1,000 subs and a 40k+-view video, and even Destin heard of his videos. They were talking about how these sub and view numbers don’t represent the true value of videos and so on.
31`I found a chance to introduce myself to Destin and my project. I mentioned his interview with Obama and he replied he wants to interview Donald Trump! He seemed to have interpreted that I just remade his videos (with the same content), and I explained that my videos are all new contents. I really failed to phrase it correctly (I said that I “remade” 3b1b’s videos using JavaScript…)
31`Anyway, Destin is pretty impressed; he dragged around my Chapter 1 video and took a photo of my phone, keeping a record of my channel information. He talked about how he hangs out with Grant and how intelligent he is, and in the end when he and Diana was leaving, he agreed to talk to Grant about my project when there is a chance.
24`I stumbled somewhat in the conversation—alas, my old problem of stumbling heavily whenever I get nervous. I’ve mentioned many times this month that my personal development is stagnating. Now is a time to reflect on how I should present myself and hold conversations in formal situations, as I’m really so used to studying and being alone.
31`Last week, I sent an email to the chair of the Physics Department, who is organizing the event, and talked about how I am inspired by these channels to started my own channel and how I want to utilize this networking opportunity. He sent me a pretty cold reply, and I was somewhat discouraged. I didn’t write the letter eventually, partly because I reasoned that she could do little to help with my channel. In retrospect, I could have asked her to introduce me to 3b1b? That’s a chance I shouldn’t miss!
24`Diana talked about how she wants to start a second channel that specifically aims to promote girls in STEM, impassioning young girls to break the stereotypes imposed on them and pursue science. She said she probably don’t encourage others to become YouTubers, though.
24`For me, I will never consider doing YouTube full-time, but I really wish to utilize this platform to get to know more awesome people. As Destin points out, what matters is what I learned from creating those contents.

