D5P197-190228
13`In the past two months, my progress in math and CS is perhaps still only less than two thirds that of the first two months of G13S. The reason for this is discussed multiple times.
33`My interest in world history and culture regrew, though, and I spent much time learning the German language and Western history. I watched YouTube channels like Langfocus, Geography Now, Prager University, and Easy German, and I feel that my world outlook is increasing rapidly.
11`On 3/1 the CS 3250 test 1 grade was released. There are two 100’s, class median is around mid 70’s, class average slightly higher, and I got only 75. The reason for my failure is partly due to luck. Luck is important since there are only 4 problems on the test. Like 983 said, if you know how to do it, you get the 25 points, else...
11`There are over a dozen algorithms that we learned, and I spent much time reviewing algorithms for finding paths, but the last two big questions were both on graph connectedness algorithms.
11`Of course, a deeper reason is a problem with my approach to this course. The night before I watched many YouTube videos about graph algorithms and sort of understood them, but it turned out that I didn’t. After the test I realized that those graph algorithms are hard. Harder than what I have encountered before.
13`So, simply watching videos and reading books over and over don’t guarantee mastery at all. I have to really go through the algorithm step by step by myself. The problem is not with my attitudes; I believe my attitudes are good, it’s just that I need to make some adjustments to my study methods, which stayed basically the same over the past one year. It’s been a long time since I experienced this kind of 2014-style spontaneous self-reflection after a failed test.
11`Since Spring break is near and not many people went to class, Professor Spinrad spent the latter half of the class for FAQs. I thought about asking about the extra credit and stuff, but after others asked him questions like “what’s your favorite algorithm,” I realized that the professor is probably not interested in stuff like grades, so I asked
11`Instead of talking about how an algorithm works out, he often provides a high-level overview of why this is important and even likes to criticize the fact that some things are taught in university classes. From this perspective, his level is even higher than the MIT and Stanford algorithms Professors on the OCW videos.
11`The 3rd Project of CS 3258 is about image resizing using the Lanczos filter. I wanted to start in late February, but one night I stared at the professor’s notes and couldn’t understand anything. This continued for a while and I was a bit freaked out, but after staring at all the lecture slides and Wikipedia pages over and over again for more than 10 hours, everything finally started to make sense starting from 3/5.
11`I spent the spare time during the final three days of my service trip thinking about how the algorithm works in my head while volunteering, and I began to understand some principles in signal processing. I started coding on Friday 3/8, and got it right almost in the first time, which is such a wonderful feeling that I can’t wait to write this down in Diary.
11`Of course, I am supposed to reflect on the social issue of people with disabilities during my time at ASB, but in reality I was immersed in thinking about convolutions and Fourier Transforms since I think it’s more fun.
