D5P200-190321
13`Now’s a good time to reflect on my study methods. Since April 2016, my study system has been self-motivated, and my study strategy has been mostly input-driven, with less emphasis on feedback of how well I’m doing. This is problematic since I can easily be under the illusion that I’ve mastered a concept when I actually missed something important.
11`And it is especially dangerous for proof-based courses. This semester, the difficulty of the math/CS courses is greater than in previous semesters—notably CS 3250 and Math 3890, requiring a new level of rigor unlike what I’ve encountered before, and the strategies that worked well won’t apply here.
13`After a month of reflection, I’ve decided to go through all the concepts by actually writing things down instead of thinking or reading, especially before tests, so that I know what I don’t understand well. This will take more time, but there’s no shortage of time—as long as I start preparing early, like back in G13S!
13`Psychologists like to say that reading books and listening to lectures is the least efficient way to learn and you forget 90% of the knowledge—only through active discussion and feedback can we learn something well.
13`Of course, when we’re talking about difficult concepts in math and CS, that argument simply doesn’t work. There is no way to understand a concept, especially a proof, if you don’t listen to lectures and read books and think hard. There is no way to learn via hands-on experience or something else that’s “active.”
11`Recently, the Algorithm class begins to cover NP-completeness. Although Professor Spinrad is an extremely smart guy as I said in D5P197, his lectures are not beginner-friendly. I could barely understand his lecture if I don’t preview the materials beforehand, just like back when I was taking Digital Logic and Stats. And often you don’t know what he will cover next class.
11`NP-completeness is not like anything I’ve seen before, and I find it very difficult to learn even if I devote hours reading the textbook each day. The study method I’ve used previously simply break down. I have to resort to the Feynman technique and try to break the concepts into pieces to slowly absorb them.
13`In my ELR Project, I try to make myself as clear as possible. I explain every detail with great care, paying special attention to the relationship between concepts and the sequence in which I should present them, afraid that my viewer couldn’t follow my logic. This is a powerful principle that inspires me greatly when I need to learn something outside of my familiar territory, such as right now.
11`Later, as I read more about NP-completeness, all the reasoning started to click. Just like a few weeks ago when I was learning convolution, such is the general trend of learning—at first it’s slow because you can’t understand anything, and then growth becomes exponential after breaking some bottlenecks, and then the speed levels off to become constant, and after long enough the speed declines.
12`Speaking of ELR: On 3/18 and 3/19, using about 10 ~ 12 hours of work, I finished the code for the main animations for chapter 4, which is pretty quick. For two days, I felt like I wasn’t stuck in a growth bottleneck anymore and my good state returned. As mentioned before, the ELR project requires continuity, so since I basically have little to do recently, I decided to push my schoolwork later a bit since I could be more efficient then, and focus on the ELR for a couple of days.
12`On 3/21 and 3/22, I finished the latter half of narration and editing of chapter 3, in about 4 ~ 5 hours. When exporting the final video, the music didn’t work properly for the previous formats for some reason, so I had to choose another format (HDV 1080 25i).
31`I published the video on 3/22 midnight and posted it on reddit. My channel’s view count increased by about 240 in the next day, and I gained 24 new subscribers. The number of upvotes in the reddit thread is twice that of my previous two videos; I think the improved thumbnail definitely played a role.
31`On 3/25 afternoon, my subscriber number suddenly skyrocketed, doubling to 140 by 19:00, and not long after, the view number doubled as well, breaking 2,000. Ah, Grant replied to my post and actually tweeted my video series!
25`I found that in my Chapter 2 video, the music was off and became pretty distracting. I have to admit that this is the first time I watched this video on YouTube. This is a quite serious mistake and decreased the video’s quality a lot, and I really should have fixed it earlier. Maybe the only way to fix it would be to reupload sometime in the future… This is not the first time I make such kind of mistake: recall the 7/9 Incident back in 2017? Learn from these experiences!
22`I also removed the part in my YouTube “about” page about my seeking jobs and linking to my LinkedIn profile. I just thought it was quite weird.
31`I watched Elliot’s video about how he gained 50k subs in 2 months—863 recommended his channel to me on 3/14, and I found that many college students are posting popular, high-quality vlogs on YouTube—and he talked about the importance of watch time. YouTube uses this as an important measurement in their recommendation algorithms. Well, the retention rate in my video has been quite low—usually only about 25% of the video’s total length. But I don’t think there is anything I could do about it.

