D5P201-190324
11`On 3/20, the CS-3251 students took their exam 2; compared to 181 people at the time of exam 1, only 157 took exam 2.
24`On 3/21’s office hours 698 spoke highly of my post on 3/12, saying I’m very sincere and it showed my hard work without sounding arrogant. She also talked about how she’s still trying to connect to alumni to get summer internships, even though finance companies don’t even pay interns.
22`On 3/20, as I applied to Prof. Work’s summer research program, his PhD student, Will, invited me to his lab and held a discussion with me. It’s been a long time since I last felt like I’m talking with a life mentor. Much of their project intersect with my interest and skillset, and the lab is surrounded by a modernized, uplifting, intellectual atmosphere, so I feel that I cannot miss this opportunity.
22`1 year ago, I almost visited their lab when taking Prof. Work’s class in '18 Spr, but I didn’t grab that chance. Of course, if I work on their lab during the summer, I will not have much time to focus on my own project and get it done on time, compared to if I work with Prof. Aldroubi? And I also need to prepare for GRE and coding interviews… but still…
22`On 3/21 I sent a follow-up email to Will, and he replied, sending me a coding assessment. I finished on 3/25, and on 3/27 I officially joined the lab—they complimented a lot on my coding skills!
23`By now I’ve told many people about my decision to graduate early. Most of them react surprised and think I’m very smart. Although I’ve been preparing for 3 years of graduation since the start of 2018, I don’t think it’s a super necessary decision.
24`For one thing, I’ve established a pretty solid network and support group among my peers. But the juniors, especially boys, tend to neglect me and not befriend me. Remember how 14 months ago I invited almost all NFLS upperclassmen to have dinner together, but most of them just said they’re too busy? Were they really busy? Then why did only 496 agree pleasantly—she’s supposed to be the busiest, right? Ah, now I would never have such a motivation to connect with upperclassmen.
24`I do have some female junior friends, though, such as 469, 495, 475, and 466. And, the boys’ relative indifference to me might not be a bad thing, since it can motivate me—only through hard work can I gain their admiration and fit better into their group.
21`Of course, there are also a ton of arguments that support the decision. There are not many interesting courses at Vanderbilt’s Math and CS departments, and if I instead take liberal arts courses, it could crash my GPA.
14`Also, after a year and a half, my self-motivation has been mostly depleted. If I finish college in 4 years, I would definitely like to take a semester off to travel to Europe, etc. Otherwise, without a chance to regain motivation, my study efficiency will only continue to decline.
14`From Zhongkao to ACT to '18 Spr, every period of rapid personal development has been preceded by a long period of relaxation. Take '18 Spr for example. Before my freshman year, I had 8 months to do a full-scale reflection on my life and to immerse in reading history for days. The sad truth is, it’d be impossible to regain the same level of motivation as '18 Spr, unless I take at least a year off.
13`Against the necessity of this relaxation period, there is also evidence that show the importance of inertia. After an intense round of studying, this momentum often continues as my excitement and concentration is preserved for some time.

