D5P202-190330
32`After being accepted into the lab, I looked up the Warren College, and it’s $3,135 for 10 weeks—which is not ridiculous since I can live in a very nice single with furniture, and in terms of price, during school year, the cost of campus housing is $5,300 per semester (17 weeks). I later found that it only opens on May 26. Before that, I could live in 120’s apartment, as her roommate won’t be living there until June.
31`On 3/26 afternoon, I had a nice talk with 487, a graduate student who is offered a job at Google. As a TA for CS-2212 last semester, she remembers my name as she thinks my homework are well-written; now she’s TA-ing for CS-3270. During their office hours, she and 462 talked about renting houses in the SF Bay Area.
13`As the semester progresses, the Math 3890 course is getting harder, as usual. As I tackle these new concepts such as the pseudoinverse, the videos I made myself really helped me understand a lot. With the visual of all those transformation in mind, so many concepts become so much more intuitive.
13`Since last weekend (3/23), my study efficiency and motivation has restored somewhat. To tackle the coming CS 3250 test 11 days later (4/10), I continue to refine my study methods. I find it very hard to read the recommended textbooks, so I am now reading Wikipedia pages about complexity theory and graph theory extensively, since the articles there are easier to understand and digest.
13`To gain a broader background knowledge base, I value the breadth of my reading, hoping that these seemingly irrelevant contents can eventually help me understand my notes better—it’s super inefficient if I just read my notes over and over like I did in the first half of the semester. By 4/5, I’ve finished all Wikipedia articles I can find on NPC and NPC problems discussed in class.
11`For CS 3258 Project 4, I thought it would be easy, but struggled for about 7 hours to get my matrices to work. I copied the code from p5.js, but on 4/2’s lecture, the professor said that he uses a different interface in the code that we should be adapting, and after he derived the formulas in his framework, my code worked immediately...
11`The lesson, he says, is that many times in your career, you will adapt someone else’s code, and it’s important to know what kind of framework or units they are using.
13`Back to 3250: to tackle this difficult subject and to prepare for this crucial exam, for the first time in my college life, I tried out previously deprecated studying methods such as categorizing the problems and list down methods of proving NP-completeness.
11`On 4/3 469 gave me some practice tests. Some of the problems are still pretty hard. Indeed, there are a ton of things that I need to digest, and I might not have enough time even with 35 hours of intense studying. Like the last time, I might be unlucky and encounter some problems that I’ve not familiar with and have no idea how to solve. So, as much as I hate this, I would need some test-specific strategies as well.
11`469 says that in a test, if you encounter a question you can’t solve, it’s okay. It’s crucial to get the other three problems absolutely right, and get half the points on the other one. Getting an 87 on tests is enough for an A. For the unsolvable problem, she says, it’s important that you write as long, messy, and confusing as possible. You can give contradicting conclusions in different parts of your nonsense answer.
11`So, if I do encounter a NP-complete problem I have no idea how to prove, I could rant about the definition of various concepts and shamelessly add common ways to do reductions—adding empty vertices, adding universal vertices, splitting vertices… well, maybe one of these would work!
11`The test will constitute 17.5% of the final grade. It will take place on 4/10, the 3rd anniversary of my life’s “New Era.” Hopefully this will give me the best of luck!
