D5P203-190404
32`On 4/3 afternoon I toured Towers 2 with 329. Then I selected my single room to be Room 1023, Towers 2. I could have gone to Tolman—and I almost did, but later I changed my mind since I would live much closer to my many friends in Towers. 329 later also chose to live on Floor 10.
31`Speaking of 329: During sophomore year, I spent about a dozen Saturday afternoons helping him with his homework. At the very first I was a bit annoyed, but over the half a year, he’s become one of my most reliable friends and we’ve built a friendship that I am determined to cherish.
24`329 struggled a lot in CS 2201 and didn’t get a good grade, so I didn’t quite look up to him initially, but later when we hang out more and more, he shows his extensive knowledge about business and entrepreneurship, so I also come to admire him more and more. This summer, he got into a pretty fancy software internship in Chengdu through networking.
24`He relies on me in academics, and I rely on him for life and, sometimes, career advice or resources. He has been extremely generous in inviting me to meals, and cares about me a lot. He introduced me to a website to submit resumes to software companies, and taught me the importance of cover letters.
23`High school philosophy tells us, quantitative changes necessarily result in qualitative changes. The advent of 329 is a natural outcome of my academic skills and reputation. Although I helped him more as of now, I know how important this friendship could be in the long run…
31`On 4/5, 469 invited a bunch of people into a group chat named “Eating on My Mind”. We formed a group of 8 people, equally divided between boys and girls, and sophomores and juniors. 6 of us went to Osake to eat sushi in the evening (I ordered Alaska but it turned out to be raw fish…)
24`Last week I’ve complained about how difficult and tiring it is to be the pioneer of my peers, with no one to guide me in my own courses. So, I really want to thank 469 for including me and offering me such a good opportunity to build friendship with the fellow juniors, although she complained that the way I talk to her sometimes sounds direct and unpleasant.
13`Speaking of no one guiding me: on the one hand, it’s because of my personality and unfamiliarity with all those juniors, but on the other hand, I think figuring out things on my own is often a better way to truly learn and enhance myself. 982, for example, almost never relies on others when studying. Sure, asking others can help increase efficiency, but that kind of reliance can prevent you from going through the necessary explorations.
23`When I mentioned I’m graduating in 3 years to 483, he seemed surprised and said I am torturing myself (whereas my peers usually compliment on me when they are told about this). Well, to some extent, it is, although I don’t regret it. I haven’t told anyone yet that 493 is the direct reason why I made this reckless decision.
32`Today (4/6 Beijing time) is also 697’s 11th birthday—I once said to 671 that one reason I am graduating early is because I have a younger sister. This is definitely one motivation—to take responsibility in my family and to reserve more resources to 697, although to be honest it’s not the primary reason.
31`Anyway, 483 says he likes to play badminton on Sundays—that’s a pretty good chance for me to build friendship with him!
