D5P204-190407
32`Recently the temperature fluctuates sharply. When the temperature is about 20 °C, the most ridiculous thing is that when you enter a building, it could either be colder than the outside, or be hotter. Even different parts of a building can have vastly different temperatures. It seems that Americans like to keep their rooms at 25 °C when it’s 15 °C outside, and 15 °C when it’s 25 °C outside.
34`As the campus turn greener, its positive effect on my mood is becoming obvious. Seeing sunlight with green trees is such a powerful mental booster. My net weight stabilizes at 54.5 kg as I eat much more than G14F.
33`Recently when I have time, I still like to read about astronomy and think about the past and future of the world—China, Germany, and the US. When seeing the influx of immigrants and the way some German officials treat refugees better than their own citizens, I feel quite pitiful yet also couldn’t resist a slight gloating over Germany’s future, since it’s a powerful competitor of China after all.
33`On YouTube, people’s opinions are almost overwhelmingly against Merkel, as they call her a traitor that ruined German and European culture. Indeed, Tang China’s history has taught us the danger of introducing massive immigrants and the importance of maintaining ethnic homogeneity.
33`Supposedly, leaders of every major world power never make decisions according to their own will; such important decisions must be carried out by a group of very smart think bank people who care deeply about their homeland. So, it confuses me why Merkel makes this choice.
33`One popular interpretation is that Germany’s leadership wants to instill nationalist sentiments among its people. After WWII, Germans are brainwashed to believe that war is very bad, their own country is not worth loving, and have little awareness of self-defense. Germany’s military (and to some extent, politics) has been largely controlled by the US and the nation’s safety is at stake. So, immigrants might pose a threat to people’s lives so that they can support the nation’s rearmament??
33`Others say that Germany wants to introduce more workers for their industry, or it wants to expand its global influence by allowing immigrants, although I personally don’t think this is worth it, given the consequences of ethnic division.
24`I know, having these weird hobbies will probably isolate me when I talk with most peers. That’s why I find so, so much resonance with Kurzgesagt: they—and my idealized Germans in general—have such a wide interest in various intellectual subjects, just like me.
14`For months, I have only cared about how I should work hard in the coming application season. I haven’t really talked about what attitudes and mindset I should have toward my life’s next turning point.
14`As I mentioned, since college started, my sole focus is on academics. This success-oriented mindset has myriad benefits, but as it becomes the guiding principle of every aspect of my life, it can create problems. Specifically, in February when I felt my progress wasn’t fast enough, I felt extremely worthless and painful. Since this February, the “catching up on 493” slogan has increasingly become empty words.
