D5P205-190408
14`Sometimes I would read 493’s recent posts about her colorful, free life to gain motivation, though this motivation is not too powerful, partly because school is in session and I have more immediate concerns—I hope that the motivation will accumulate now and then release in the summer.
43`Surely, others would criticize my mindset of setting the person I like as an academic goal. Judging each other based on abilities and chasing after each other—this is not what love is about. Sometimes I would also doubt myself for this, especially so around January 2018, but I’ve since reassured myself that as of right now, it is correct to hold a 12/12-based perspective on love.
43`The first justification: it’s not that I have not tried to chase her the normal way. Way back one and a half years ago, I tried every method I could to befriend her. The result is her feeling annoyed. So, the only way left that might work out for me is to catch up on her academically. I know it’s still hard for her to get a feel for me, but at least it would be more likely; I would have little chance otherwise.
41`So far, this strategy is at least not failing. A month ago when I told her I’m graduating early, 493’s first reaction was to say I’m really smart. Indeed, she could have had many other not as favorable reactions, and that really gave me a lot of confidence.
24`The second reason is that it’s unlikely that I will start a relationship in college anyway, so I might as well continue to like her. There are about 40 Chinese girls in our grade, and I’m good friends with many of them, especially those girls struggling with CS. Last Monday (4/1) 698 invited me to lunch at Sushi-88 since I helped her a lot in her CS course and we had a very intellectual talk. But she already has a boyfriend, and so are many others.
43`I still have a feeling of “discrimination” against girls who study art, instead of more “practical” subjects such as engineering, math, economics, and even medicine. Americans like to say that we should not judge people based on this. That’s fine for people in general, but for my ideal partner it’s different: I wish her to not be an overly idealistic person that ignores what the workforce need the most.

24`I think of 962 back in spring 2017: she is the one who can initiate a hours-long conversation with me out of nowhere, a conversation filled with humor, mutual admiration, and us two taking turns leading the topics.
43`I wish my conversation with 493 can be like this! Till now, I say much more than she does, and she hardly offers any information about herself if I don’t ask.

