D5P206-190410
11`On 4/8 I registered for my courses next semester. The course selection was set basically months ago, and I know I will share courses with tons of Chinese rising-seniors.
11`Later would I learn how advantageous I was to register early. For many popular classes, even rising seniors have hard times getting in. The Cryptography class was full just after I enrolled in it! By the morning of 4/10, even CS-3281 and CS-3250 have only a few seats left for those rising juniors who register on 4/11, let alone other classes.
11`I feel a little bad that I only take 13 hours given the high tuition. Being afraid that my GPA will crash prevents me from learning other interesting courses.
11`By the Algorithm test on 4/10, I’ve done every NP-complete problem I can find from the test bank that a xuezhang offered—not counting the few duplicate problems, I solved about 24 problems. At about 27 hours, this is one of the tests I spent the most time preparing for since college—I basically did the best I could to understand every single concept the professor covered.
11`On the test, the third portion of the second problem (proof of edge double cover’s approx. ratio), once appeared in Fall 2016’s final, but apart from that there are no duplicate problems from previous exams.
11`Update on 4/15: I got a 97 on the test, ranking in the top 10% of the class. Class average is about 72-ish, and the standard deviation is huge. I didn’t actually get the 3rd problem right, but Prof. Spinrad only took off 2 points for that. I assume that this is maybe because the other parts of my exam demonstrate that I have studied hard for the test?
14`The score bolsters my confidence a lot, and I feel that the golden age—'18 Spr—when I always scored at the top 10~15% of the class, has returned. When preparing for this test, I motivated myself by reflecting on how I spent 40+ hours preparing for the 3rd mid-term of Digital Logic a year ago.
14`I believe that several months later when I prepare for my coding interviews, I will refer back to this period for motivation and study techniques—how to dig into a concept really deeply and make sure that I really mastered it, etc.
12`After the test, I devoted myself to the ELR project once again, spending about 12 hours on 4/10 and 4/11 finalizing the Chapter 4 video. As with last time, I’m delaying a lot of unurgent schoolwork to next week. The sound quality improved a little bit since I bought a new microphone this week.
11`On 4/11 I had two intense office hours since Project 7 is due tomorrow. Many students recognize me as frequently being the last person to hold OHs before deadlines.
24`In fact, there is a dude who I helped a lot, and he would friendlily ask for a handshake whenever he sees me. I don’t know how to pay back this friendship, though.
11`On 4/12 I talked to Prof. Work, and got some logistics issues for my summer research nailed down. He talked about the projects they’re doing and the mathematical models they’re using, what to expect in the lab and how to communicate with teammates, how I should try my best to avoid plagiarism (and other issues) which will be a disaster to the lab, what I could gain from the intern experience—publishing papers, getting his recommendation, etc., how undergrads are mostly on the position of receiving help and it’d be more beneficial if I stayed for a year instead of two months…
11`I talked about the courses I took, my interests, and my future plans, and he’s glad that his lab is a good fit for my interests and goals.
11`Although I will not be participating through the VUSE program, I receive the same amount of stipend, and 133 commented that it looks nicer than doing VUSE. The time commitment is just 20 hours per week—far less than I originally thought, and since there will be many other undergrads working here as well—some from the VUSE program, some the same as me—I do have enough time to do my own project stuff during the summer.
32`I then talked to 489 and 491, two Chinese PhD girls who will be my teammates. Since they will start the project on 5/20, I have to delay my trip home to 7/27—I’ve yet to figure out what to do in the three-week gap after the finals. I should probably travel somewhere since it’s important to relax after over 8 months of schooling.
11`489 attended Tongji and UCB, and is now doing her PhD work here. She showed me the half-product of a PhD paper of hers, which is about a fancy version of PCA and its application in traffic engineering.

