D5P207-190412
24`On 4/10, 983 sent me a book entitled CODE as birthday present (although I’m born on 3/12). She read the book when she was in high school, which is pretty impressive. What should I send to her before she leaves for the summer?
13`As mentioned back in D5P200, the two proof-based courses I’m taking now are very rigorous and require more intense brain energy than any course I’m taken before. This consumption of mental energy resulted in some changes in my lifestyle.
34`First, my biological schedule has entirely collapsed. For proof-based courses, it’s impossible to study if I’m even just a little sleepy. So, I find that it might be more productive to sleep whenever I’m feeling sleepy. Many would argue that this is not healthy at all, but even if I go to a library in order not to fall asleep during the day, sometimes I still fall asleep almost immediately after I lied on the desk, when I attempt to have a little rest.
34`In the past one week, my sleep time has been one of the messiest—sometimes I would sleep in the afternoon and evening, and then stay up all night for no reason. Second, I would intermittently indulge myself in some arousing activities.
13`Of course, the decline of my motivation and faith also contributed to these phenomena. But it’s not a fundamental reason. For example, I could immerse myself in making ELR videos for an entire day—if you only count the number of hours spent per day as a measure for productivity, then I could be productive every day if I make videos every day.
13`Sure, I need to write scripts, calculate many things, and code a lot, but the intensity of mental energy needed is orders of magnitudes smaller than learning hard algorithms and doing proofs. Just look back at 2016—back then, reading English books was in some sense a relaxation by itself, so I could “study” for 8 ~ 12 hours for several months straight and not have any problems described above.
13`My state during last summer is similar: I could solve up to 100 math problems on Brilliant.org every day, but most of them are easy compared to all the things I’m learning now.
12`Speaking of Brilliant, I haven’t solved problems on it for a long time now, largely because I’ve exhausted most of the valuable problems. Last summer I was addicted to it the same reason I was immersed in reading in summer 2016. Although many problems are easy, solving these easy problems is still valuable—it’s like daily mental exercise.
13`On 4/11 I read a Mr. Xu article about “the conservation of motivation,” in which he argues that motivation is limited and can only be used in useful places.
34`Indeed, it’s hard to sit straight when studying hard, which has resulted in my worsened back conditions.
11`On 4/15 I finished the final of Math 3890, after which I got a haircut. I spent a great deal of time reviewing during the weekend, with the invariable “S” trend of learning a subject—unable to understand anything at first, and then rapid progress, followed by repeating what’s previously learned and the slowing down of progress.
32`As with what I described back in D5P133-180403, when studying hard, I would think of the happy times of my life, and the places I traveled to—riding in my hometown, the family trip to Yunnan, the time in the West Coast… At a time when these memories become sort of a hope that I cling on to, how I wish I have cherished these happy moments and enjoyed myself more thoroughly!
13`Of course, last year, after I set goals to recharge myself during the summer, what turned out in was that I was too lazy to organize trips or meetings with my friends, and instead spent several hours each day still studying with moderate intensity, although I spent more time relaxing. I don’t know, maybe different people have different vibes for relaxing, and it’s important to explore what fits best for me.
11`On 4/17 I finished grading ISD PA-7, using less than half an hour. In total, the time I spent grading assignments is less than 9 hours this semester—10 times less than in CS-2201!
12`I spent no less time than last term helping with my peers with their homework, in person or over WeChat, though. Well, this extra time spent helping peers counts as very good socialization, review of knowledge, and confidence-booster, and is generally not a waste of time.
11`As of now, I reported 65.75 hours of work this semester, which means a payment of about $707, less than half of the last semester. (Update: By semester end, I reported 74.25 hours of work and earned about $800.)
