D5P208-190417
13`As the semester is about to end, I’ve been reflecting on my overall performance this semester. The reflections and statistics will guide my future for years to come. The time I spent studying is set to be only about 800 to 850 hours compared to 1,000 in '18 Spr and 950 in '18 Fall. In my sophomore year, I talked about my inefficiency more often than I expressed satisfaction with my progress. But have I really learned less than the previous semesters?
13`I once said that I’ve tackled the most difficult courses in college. I argued that the higher-numbered courses need prerequisites from prior knowledge, and since I laid a solid foundation for these in 2018, I will learn with more ease next.
13`But that is not true. The higher the course number, the harder it is to learn. If you look at any course I took this semester—algo, graphics, OS, linear—on average, they are a lot more sophisticated than the courses I took before. OS is special in that it’s not that mathy kind of “difficult,” but somehow still hard to understand oftentimes.
13`As I mentioned earlier, much of the concepts in all these courses are not so straightforward, and it usually takes me a lot of effort and time just to overcome a certain initial barrier—everything is hardest at the beginning—before I could do any actual learning.
13`What has happened many, many, many times this semester is that, I would try to understand a brand-new concept, such as (3258) 2D convolution, (3250) NP-completeness, (3890) the min-max theorem, or (3281) what’s a socket. Then I’d stare at notes/books/websites for several hours or even up to 10+ hours before I could start to understand a bit what’s going on. This scenario has certainly happened in previous semesters, but much less frequently.
13`And this is what takes away much of my energy, efficiency, and sense of achievement. My motivation is already limited by this time of college life, so when I consistently need to learn things outside of my comfort zone, my energy depletes rapidly and I would naturally seek out other low-energy activities, or feel sad or even worthless.
13`Especially this week after the math final ended (it’s a hard test, but thanks to my hard work, I got a 100), I have no motivation left whatsoever and spend much of the day watching videos or reading my previous diaries. If I take one more course, I would not be inclined to do the work either; if I did the work, I might get very painful like in the end of '18 Fall.
13`Of course, I am supposed to be grateful and cherish the time when I could gain knowledge without much distraction. Remember how I felt an intense sense of resistance when working in Nanjing gov’t building last summer? But there are reasons why I couldn’t always utilize my college times to the greatest extent.
13`How could I fix it? Should I seek ways to relax or should I instead push hard on myself? Three years has passed since I first asked this question, but I still don’t have an answer as of now.
13`I’ve complained a lot about my study efficiency this semester. Now I feel like time is passing a lot more quickly than in '18 Spr, as life becomes ever more monotonous and my efficiency falls. But I actually still achieved a lot, whereas back in my golden ages, I wasn’t always productive either.
32`Each semester, I seem to “waste” much time on a certain thing. In '18 Spr I spent significant time writing about my feelings for 493. In '18 Fall I spent significant time (up to a hundred hours) fighting against bad health conditions and severe weight loss. This semester I spent quite a lot of time (about 60 hours) on LNYF.
12`On the other hand, each semester, I would also spend much time building up my skills outside of class. I learned a lot of '18 Fall course contents in '18 Spr. I spent much extracurricular time learning ML in '18 Fall, and also laid the foundation for Manim.js. This semester up to now I’ve spent about 110 hours making ELR videos.
