D5P106-180101
31`At the beginning of the year, I sent some friends a happy new year, including 4 NFLS upperclassmen: 493, 496, 465, and 482. 465’s reply was quite impressive. (Now I’ve assigned a number to each 8 NFLSers from Vandy Class of 2020, because according to my strategies, I will be connecting with them quite often in future. Partly motivated, of course, by 493.)
31`No one sent me wishes on QQ, and 139 was among the few people who texted me on WeChat. (My letter to 139 has obviously worked.) The friendship between my peers has been so weak. I also discussed this in D5P12-170101. Maybe I’ll ask some social-prone friends how they spent their first minute of new year to put my situation in perspective. On 1/1 night 671 sent me a warm message, saying it was happy talking to me. I sent an equally warm reply.
24`Will the friendship among our previous friends be back when we’ve grown old enough? Or will it continue to fade, as our classmates have not been as intimate as our parent’s generation’s? Either case, now I should hold on to the strategy of depth-over-breadth, selective socializing: spend effort on those who are reliable, diligent, helpful, and who care about me, as well as upperclassmen- and elder people-oriented socializing. 
31`On 1/2 I went to Dad’s Nanjing office for the first time, and was welcomed by his secretary. I overheard Dad hosting a meeting, where he assigned his employees various tasks and criticized some of them. “This is what leadership means,” I thought, learning rapidly.
21`I also saw some resumes delivered to Dad, and find that the wages of young people nowadays are not as low as I thought? Newly graduates from an unknown university can earn up to ¥10,000 a month.
21`Dad says that, several years later, if things don’t go as he expected—his company doesn’t go public and he can’t sell his company—then it would be very awkward. He has thought about the possibility of me taking over his enterprise, but doesn’t really want to do so.
21`I suddenly felt an intense surge of a sense of responsibility, and I thought about how Cao Cao, Sima Yi, and Liu Bei educated their sons, as well as how their sons grew into successful politicians. If I really want to become a successful entrepreneur, with Dad, JC and their extensive resources, I can grow into a competent person within a few years. Will I really choose this path? 
31`Dad and I then went to NFLSXC to visit Mr. Wu and Ms. Liu. I haven’t visited them since the Teacher’s Day of 2011. Mr. Wu and I discussed the present situation of our Class 7 classmates.
23`He praised me as “a person who has his own unique thoughts”; this kinda contradicts my perception of myself, and confirms the law that one person can leave starkly different impressions on different people. 
23`He says that our Class 7 was one of the most competent group of students. “When I initiated ‘Success Has No Shortcut’, 20 students went to class to do extracurricular exercises in the early morning. Now, students have become much lazier; although he asked his students to finish some extracurricular exercises, only 3 people really did. He criticized many parents for sending their children to various classes without considering whether this is effective.
23`I was reminded how the peers around me were very diligent back in Grade 6. We did exercises on our beds, with the little torches on; we used a spare classroom as “Absolute Quiet Room” to study... the academic environment was awesome, and I know it has helped set the earliest stage of my good study habits!!
23`Then Ms. Liu invited us to lunch. Dad taught me the importance of gratitude and looking back at our history. “The more you’ve grown up, the more you realize what people have helped you achieve what you’ve got.”
32`Ms. Liu firmly rejected Dad’s gift, saying receiving gifts is disrespecting her and growing with her students and seeing them grow is her biggest source of happiness. She asked for my WeChat because she likes to see how we’re doing now. Dad says that Ms. Liu already attained a high spiritual level. Next time when I meet them, remember to bring my primary school Diary and other pieces of memories!
32`In the afternoon I rode the newly-opened Nanjing Metro Line S3 and S9. On 1/4 it snowed, and I went to the Green Expo but my feet got wet. Although when I first came home I was desperate to eat Chinese cuisine, after some time I again grew tired of the oily food.
