D5P109-180108
41`On 1/7, the day before first day of classes, I accidentally found out that I and 493 are taking two courses together: Math 2810 and Digital logic. I didn’t think too much about what I should do in case we take the same courses in winter.
42`I didn’t intend to, not did I want to, take the same courses as her. My emotions have already gone out of control, and taking same courses can create powerful distractions and intensify my emotions. It’s also risky because if I mess things up in the middle of the semester, how can I continue to take these classes?
42`As always, I thought about her irresistibly throughout the day. But I kept reminding myself of the right thing to do, most importantly let everything happen naturally and seek help from multiple ways instead of relying only on her, and I tried to manage my intense emotions to avoid the tragedy of the 5/0 Incident 2 years ago.
I no longer tried to forcibly suppress my emotions because the failed attempts in early December tells me that after my initial suppression, a stronger wave of emotions on 493 will set in later.
41`As expected, I was very nervous when first seeing 493 on 1/8 morning, but I managed to act naturally when we met. I accidentally sat right behind her in the Digital Logic Class, and although this created distraction, it’s outweighed by a powerful motivation to do well on this class.
11`I then audited Math 2820 along with her, and took Math 2810. These are many familiar Chinese faces in all these courses.
43`(Note that another situation in March 2016 was that I was extremely aspirant and eager to work hard, while 457 was eager to relax after the XiaoGaokao; her value was completely different from me, but I kept assuming that 457 was as hardworking as I was, and was painful whenever I found evidence that contradict this. I expected her, and even tended to force her, to work hard; I also wanted to impress her with my diligence, which all made her feel negatively.)
14`At the classes, I found that I was too obsessed with learning things by myself and in advance that I paid much less attention to the courses that relates to my GPA. I just bought a Python course on Udemy and joined the premium on Brilliant.org, and plan to advance my Math and CS skills significantly in the spare time of this semester.
14`I was very confident that I would spend much time on these extracurricular resources because I wasn’t busy in the previous semester and I’ve already learned many of this semester’s courses in advance. Also, now I’m becoming genuinely interested in these subjects. Of course, I’ll focus on schoolwork first before pursuing more.
14`My obsession with speed of progress has also had other negative effects. Under the motivation, the spirit of slowly, thoroughly comprehending Maths concepts that I strove to develop in the previous semester is being replaced by a tendency of faster but shallower understanding. What harm will it do to me? Just compare it to reading randomly on Zhihu.
31`On 1/10 I had lunch with 983 and is surprised to find that she also plans to either graduate in 3 years or take the 2+2 Program. She takes 18 hours of courses this semester, including Math 2501 and 3 CS courses I plan to take next semester.
24`I’ve been considering myself the most hardworking person in the grade, but now I’ve finally found a person whose diligence I can’t seem to surpass right now.
13`Recently I have thought a lot about how to form a more systematic motivation system, with a clear life plan, such as focus on studies in 2018 and then seek research opportunities in 2019, and a detailed reasoning of why choosing this path and why work harder than everyone else, such as gaining cumulative advantage, having freedom of choice, immediate applications of Maths and CS in daily life, etc.
The problem is that thinking about these makes me indecisive sometimes, and it’s actually better to just work hard without questioning why on earth I should work hard, like I did in Zhongkao Prep. Again, I want learning CS to ultimately become as taken for granted as having meals every day.
