D5P110-180111
14`These few days I’ve been very motivated in academics, and devote almost all available time studying and the rest of the time building up motivation. Although this sometimes lead to mental problems and pain (the excessive arousal), I know in the long run it will shape my academic habits in a very good way.
13`Motivation on this level is almost unprecedented since ACT Prep, and I wonder where it came from. Thinking about 493 throughout the winter vacation definitely played a role; the question is how much less the effects would be if my emotions to her were not present. Desire takes time to build up, and once desire is established and you begin to work hard, this diligence will become a part of your character.
11`On 1/12 when doing our statistics homework, I encountered several questions that require me to create various plots and calculate various values from a big bunch of data.
14`I experienced a rush of intense negative feelings when typing these values one by one. Mr. Cloud once said when checking his essays for spelling mistakes that, when you’ve attained a very high level, it would be very painful to do some simple, repetitive, meaningless work. I understand him. My growth has been so fast recently that when I’m required to “stop growing”, an intense sense of resistance will arise.
14`This experience bolstered my resolution to enhance my academic skills at all cost now, as I will definitely not want to work at a big company doing repetitive work. My life would be ruined if that’s the case all my life!! I’ve also experienced the benefits of letting machines take over these tasks, as then people would be freed and have more time for pursuing something more spiritual.
14`Keep in mind that I shouldn’t become complacent over myself now because I only have potential, and have not really turned that potential into real, solid abilities. It’s very important to keep humble and calm.
11`I didn’t eventually choose to take Stats 2820 with 493, instead staying in Stats 2810, partly because I want to audit Roth’s CS 2201 class at 11 AM. However, on 1/15 night, just before open enrollment ended, I accidentally discovered that there are spaces left for the Digital Logic Lab that she’s in. (Word count related to 493 as of now: 14,000)
