D5P112-170116
32`Today there is heavy snow, but classes didn’t suspend again. The cold weather created much trouble, as I would frequently leave something in the pocket when changing my clothes, especially my campus card. I still wake up very early, and my efficiency in the morning is not high.
13`On 1/17 at the Stats Class, I wanted to sit with 482 but my desk is broken, so I had to change seat and sat at an egghurt position. Because I sat in the back, people around me weren’t as diligent, and some boys kept playing video games. Although the professor asks us to sit at fixed places (this is not like any other class), I decide to still sit in the front next time.
14`Added on 180118: Recently my efficiency in studying CS and Maths has declined. Although I tried various methods to get myself interested, motivated, rewarded to learn them, I just can’t achieve the kind of efficiency and happiness of reading history.
Part of the reason is that I’m still not perfectly familiar with the topics and cannot yet apply my knowledge to solve real world problems. There are many eureka moments when reading history, but few when studying maths now. Compounded with a lack of extracurricular activities and the fact that my social goals with NFlS 2020er doesn’t go well, my moods have been quite unstable these days.
14`In the first week, my strong motivation brought about high efficiency but also instability in my mood. This kind of arousal significantly affected my decision-making mechanisms, as I became increasingly irrational. I treated schoolwork as unnecessary, instead intensely inclined to use extracurricular resources; I emphasized speed over quality, as I planned to understand complex materials in an increasingly short amount of time…
14`I was nervous and very self-pressured, and had an intense sense of urgency. When studying, I’m almost always dealing with some deep, unfamiliar topic, and have to think very hard about what I’m studying in order to understand it. My social life and attendance at activities almost suspended, and only occasionally go to exercise myself.
23`Note that I have now realized that my Chinese wasn’t good primarily because I was too rational when I was a child. Since I didn’t have much emotion, I couldn’t understand literary works very well. This situation changed after my love experiences in high school, and my EQ started to grow rapidly since late 2015.
23`Despite this, my personal history has time and time again proven the importance of rationality in decision making, as almost every time I make decisions driven by some emotions, I am bound to make mistakes. On the contrary, if I behave calmly in a decision, things turn out almost consistently good; for example, to this day, I am still impressed and motivated by my strategic self-adjustment system in Zhongkao Prep.
14`My good habit of thinking long-term and strategically failed in the past few days, replaced by an eagerness to succeed, excel, progress, and impress. I originally thought this situation would do good to my motivation. It did, but only temporarily. Recall how unstable and vulnerable I became under the intense stimuli?
23`This brings up the old, cliché question: why did I lose control in the 5/0? When you think about one thing, you come up with an interpretation or solution, which is usually a good one; however, when you think about the same issue for a long time, you begin to question the original interpretation/solution, and the original good thoughts fade away. This usually brings about mental conflicts and a vicious cycle.
42`A quick recap of me and 493 from 12/14 to 1/17 in the simplest words, used for explanation to others: Since I couldn’t successfully suppress my emotions towards 493, in winter break I decided to utilize this emotion to motivate myself. I set my 2018 yearly goal as surpassing her, and made ambitious plans for the semester. I was extremely motivated at the beginning of the semester, but after my study efficiency peaked on 1/11, I collapsed when our meeting on 1/12 ended in awkwardness while I began to encounter difficulties in studies.
