D5P114-180120
14`The collapse of my motivation system several days ago has caused me to rethink about how I should approach studies in a monotonous environment. Last semester I actually did a pretty good job at this, but his semester some of the good practices are abandoned, so let’s look at what I did.
13`In the first few months, I spent a significant amount of time reading about history and current affairs, and these helped me gain power by “virtually” being with the greatest people in history. Daily exercises also helped me keep my mental health.
14`Later I also watched many videos on YouTube. However, now I’m running out of these interesting YouTube videos.
13`I am aware that I shouldn’t choose only Mathy and CS courses but should have some variety in my curriculum, and so didn’t drop my CE and seminar classes. But the time spent on these two small courses are too small to satisfy my need for diversity.
31`On 1/20 night 120 took me to a performance at VU theatre, and then I ate dinner with 4 girls at Nama. The “Caterpillar” that they ordered is delicious, but I ordered a not so delicious sushi…
21`On 1/21 afternoon 671 took me to play badminton, and I got to know a senior girl majoring in psychology. She has just submitted all her PhD application in early January and is now being interviewed by the universities where she passed the “first round” of application.
22`Application to a higher degree is quite similar to college application, she says. GRE is only an insignificant threshold, and you must give a very compelling reason for why choosing this field as your research area. GPA, of course, is also important.
21`She says that many CS majors are enjoying life now because they’ve got their job offers, and for them the summer of junior year is the most intense. She, on the other hand, spent the past summer doing research at Vandy.
Although psychology students with a CS background are popular now with the development of natural language processing, etc., she really doesn’t like CS. She’s one of the few applying for PhD, as there are more applying for master’s. Although CS majors have a significant advantage in job applications, competition is increasing year by year.
24`Since the winter break I have been thinking hard about how to establish concrete connections with NFlS 2020ers. 496 and 465 would be two great starting points since I’m already quite close to them.
24`488, 451 and 493 are intimate with each other and I’m like an outsider, and I know trying to “fit in” would be as difficult as trying to fit in an American group. By “fit in” I mean we are so close that they would share their resources, information, and happiness with me on their own accord. Now our friendship is way too weak for that to ever happen.
24`Of course, I shouldn’t abandon social life with people within my grade. I will have to rely on my group of NFLSers in the housing application, and other friends are also helpful. 983 is, as of now, the person who share the most similar worldview and quality as I do.
24`Note on 1/29: Indeed, friendship is a natural thing and might not be obtained if I devote effort into it disproportionately. After failure in establishing deeper friendship with upperclassmen, I’ve begun to cherish my friendship with peers. My friendship with 139 has been growing, and he has provided various information.
My talk with ftl on 1/26 at lunch was especially fruitful, as we talked from our future life plans to economics to Chinese history. The son of a friend of his mother’s studied civil engineering at CMU and worked at an European construction company, before he was dissatisfied with his salary and went back to China to work in the lucrative college application consulting agencies. OMG!! My talks with 982 has been similarly intellectual.
24`By 1/22, I have invited 5 of the upperclassmen, but 5 of them say they don’t have time for a meeting. Are they really extremely busy or actually not that busy? Don’t scare me... I’ve been bothered by a lack of things to do recently, and last semester I was so free that I spent hundreds of hours doing “trivial” things. What are they busy about? The fact that they’re busy also motivates me, though.
14`However, recently I find that there’s so much motivation that I frequently have to stop to calm myself down and avoid the negative consequences brought by the emotional arousal.
