D5P115-170123
11`On 1/22 I sent an email to my academic advisor stating my plan for future, but haven’t received reply as of 1/23. I’ll ask other professors or search the web recently. Today at the Transportation Engineering Class, the professor says he’s looking for undergrads in his lab; his projects will combine machine learning with transportation systems.
21`“If you want to apply for grad school, things are really simple. Gain some research experience, and your advantage will skyrocket exponentially. You’ll also get paid, although this is insignificant since you’ll earn much more in the future.”
12`This is a great opportunity for me! In the past two weeks I’ve basically grabbed the essence of machine learning through a dozen hours of video watching, and I am passionate about learning this exciting subject! (Note: I’ve stopped working at Dr. Neuert’s Lab...)
33`I also read a thought-provoking article of Huolaoye, which criticizes how student government leaders in colleges become bureaucratic, indulged in the pleasure of power, and presumptuous, and say that they’re bound to fail in employment and the workforce. Employers are not seeking those self-proclaimed leaders, but instead steady, skilled, loyal people who can really bring benefits. Huolaoye’s articles have been consistently insightful. I don’t know if these principles also apply to the society of United States.
24`On 1/23 night I had an important talk with 496. Her clear life plans and has served as a wake up call for me, as I’m quickly getting complacent over my recent progress. Last semester she could only sleep 4 to 5 hours on weekdays. She is taking 18 credits this semester, while simultaneously serving as TA for a Math class and planning to do research. How busy would that be!
24`If you’re applying for job in the US, good relationships with Chinese peers won’t be very helpful and you must rely on networks with Americans. If you’re seeking entrepreneurship opportunities, social life with a wide variety of people will be necessary.
21`I talked about my plan of graduating in 3 years, and she says that 482 has already changed his status to junior. That’s a great piece of news to me, since this identity gives him major advantages. However, 496 points out that if I’m going for grad school, graduation in 3 years would be meaningless, since academic foundation and research experience requires many years of accumulation.
22`496 emphasizes the importance of recommendation letters in the grad school admissions process. Leaving a good impression on the professors is important because they are the people who testify and articulate on your research experience. Above all, the most effective way to know what I should do is to visit the grad school application page of my target school (actually this is the same for job-seekers).
24`496 says that my plan to study with upperclassmen won’t be quite helpful since many of the things are better done on my own. I argued that whenever I’m alone or with my counterparts, I frequently become complacent over myself or become undetermined when seeing others choosing different paths. My mindset may be completely different when being with a person who’s busier and stronger than me and who shares a common goal with me, and befriending them will shape my qualities in a positive way, regardless of whether they’ll directly help my career.
24`However, I admitted that it’d be inconvenient and a bit unnatural to implement my plan to spend more time with them, and this drawback may be enough to outweigh the advantage, as I mentioned last November after eating dinner with 493 for several days. When I enter sophomore year, though, the barrier between different grades will be broken.
21`496 says that from her observation of upperclassmen, for CS majors, getting into a top-10 grad school is very difficult, while it’s not uncommon to get in big companies like Google or Facebook. If you go for a PhD, after graduation you might not outcompete those who have 5 years of work experience and already got promoted.
22`I said that in high school I was unclear about my life goals but ended up well in college application, but 496 went on to talk about her perception of the difference between college application and grad school application. She says that you need to have a very specific specialty for grad school application, and prior planning would be far more important pre-grad.
24`When I say that people besides me are not as busy and aspirant, 496 mentioned 619 and praised her as clever. Her reaction completely coincides with my talk with 459, and I’m wondering how 619 managed to leave good impression on so many upperclassmen.
24`496 talked about how she has laid out a specific goal to fight for for the next 10 years, and even how she fears the midlife crisis. She frequently reflects on life’s meaning by imagining whether she’ll feel satisfied if she was to pass away tomorrow.
21`Compared to me who has been vague as to what I want to do, 496 has completely figured out her goals and has been working hard towards it with great determination—grad school, Maths major. Note that her perspectives might not be completely correct, but it’d be extremely valuable reference. I’ll do what she suggest, though: connect with more people who has undergone the entire process.
23`In general, 496’s worldview is somewhat in conflict with my own. Although I value academics very much, I also want to become more versatile and develop my comprehensive ability in college, instead of being too focused on the specific goals of grad school. Will my emphasis on love experience as of now be regarded as an act of childishness in the future? What about my spending hundreds of hours reading and thinking about history?
23`My plans for the future seem far less clear than 496’s, although I do have considered what I should become in ten years. As I said, leemz2002 has had the most significant and enduring influence on me. At 22 years older than me, he has served as my role model.
