D5P126-180303
31`Today is the ﬁrst day of Spring Break, and the site leaders drove the 12-person team to Detroit. My social life with Americans has long stagnated, and I feel like it’s been forever since I last introduced myself.
24`ASB is one of the few ways I socialize with American peers every week, which is good because I can practice my speaking, and with the efforts by our site leaders, we’re really becoming a very intimate community. This is beneﬁcial in many ways: we can easily break into smaller groups with any teammate without sticking together with certain people, etc.
24`How did the site leaders build up this intimacy? At our group meetings we did a lot of highs and lows, fun facts, 2 truth 1 lies or other Q&A’s about oneself, guess-who-this-is’s, and so we got to know each other really well. Because of this, we can joke about each other or ﬁnd topics easily.
24`The things Americans chat about are quite similar to what we Chinese do: gossips, various students and profs, Vandy, and other random matter. They talk more about MCAT and stuff, though, as there are more pre-meds in our group.
24`During the long 10-hour drive, I paid attention to how the site leaders used interesting games to entertain us. However, these games seem only fun when more than two people are present; still, I want to learn these techniques not only for romance, but also for a better social life. During the trip I continue to think about the knowledge I just learned in my college courses, as well as reﬂecting on my performance in the important period of Jan 2018.
32`After arriving at Detroit we settled down in a church in city center, and it is indeed quite empty, though it seems not as unsafe as we think. The time in Detroit is one hour ahead of Nashville, which is great since I can adjust myself one week ahead of the DST right here!
24`At night the two site leaders did their life maps, and it really opened up my mind: as Rob said, the hardship others have gone through helps you put your own life pattern into perspective, as people are normally unaware of the true side of others’ life and falsely think only they themselves have such and such issues. (Life map is an activity where all 12 team members talk about their life story in every night of the service trip, 1.5 hours for each person.)
31`Robert’s parents are from China; they had a girl in China but then gave birth to Robert in the US after the father got a medical license and thus a stable job here. He talked about how he achieved glory in the middle school water polo team but then got into a conﬁdence crisis after a new, stricter coach arrived.
31`Mukhi is from India; his parents were poor but his dad got a job in the US after he self-learned CS and became a programmer (his father studied mechanical eng and then electrical eng in college...). Like Rob, he talked a lot about his relationship with his parents: because of his dad’s experiences, his dad is obsessed with Mukhi’s academic skills, so he pushed him really hard. Mukhi also talked about his evolution of social life; he was kind of isolated because of his color early in school life, but somehow became a popular boy by the end of high school.
31`The site leaders say that there are tons of girls among ASB site leaders, and we are the only site where we have two male as site leaders. The two both talked about their love experiences, which are pretty interesting. They also both talked about how they’re innately introverted; Rob once joined a fraternity but then quit after he felt like the relationships formed while drinking together are way too superﬁcial, which is what many frat members actually think.
24`The way they told their stories also inspired me on how I should present my own story in a continuous, clear manner. I think this is an important skill as such deep revelation of oneself can deepen your bond with other people drastically when used at the right time. I’ve never talked about my life in a lecture-like manner before, and I’ll try to develop this skill in this opportunity.
33`3/4 is our “free day”; we ﬁrst visited an island between the US and Canada, and went as near as 200 meters from the border! In the afternoon we went on a tour guided by a black historian, whose speech mainly focused on the evolution of racial relationships here. We all listened attentively and I thought about the evolution of ethnical relationships in Chinese history.
31`Before dinner we broke into four groups, with each group responsible for one night’s dinner. We went to Walmart to buy stuff, and I can obviously feel the change in me when shopping as I become much more independent and responsible, after two months of rigorous brainwork and knowledge expansion. BTW we make simple breakfast ourselves every morning.
31`Tonight Josh and Danielle did their Life Maps. Josh told a lot of very funny stories that aren’t quite related to himself... Danielle’s approach is similar to Robert’s and Mukhi’s, as they’re all second generation Asians, and have more or less been through some isolation and conﬁdence crisis but eventually had a successful social life. Danielle’s Dad did his post-doc at Duke and became a physician, and her 29 year-old brother is still in medical school. I deﬁnitely don’t want to still stay in the school ten years later.
31`Also she has just experienced a very funny and dramatic love experience, and when she talked about it, everyone is constantly laughing and I also enjoyed it extremely. Our group is really intimate now; my teammates care about me a ton, and for my part, I’m also more and more able to express myself and take responsibilities, which makes me feel great, although sometimes I don’t want to hang out with them because the topics they talk about are getting boring and trivial and I’ve got much studies to do.
