D5P127-180305
31`Today is our ﬁrst day of service. We did some labor and then taught some ﬁrst graders English homework. We then played games with these kids, and throughout the games I’ve been applying the knowledge I learned in Stats courses to calculate the probabilities...
31`On 3/5 Ulysses did his life map, which is very interesting and inspiring. As of now our speakers’ love experiences generally ended up becoming good friends, but Ulysses apparently doesn’t agree... During the day the teammates joked him about a gossip with a girl in Hank House, but it turned out to be a fake news and Ulysses said it’d be not professional for him to get into this kind of affair for an RA (Residential Advisor).
43`These people’s love/crush experiences are super helpful for me as I’ve been more able to put my awkward experience with 621 into perspective as I previously didn’t know how to talk about the fact that she liked me without sounding arrogant, and the way they talk about those awkward moments so naturally—liking many people at a time, acting stupidly in front of the crush— also opens up my mind and help me understand human nature. Some of my teammates say Life Maps are the reason they go to the ASB because they can know so many things they can’t know otherwise.
31`On 3/6 I did my life map after Anna and Seungyeon. I did pretty well explaining my parents’ story and my early childhood, but I kind of exaggerated my problems in middle school while they’re not that serious. I also didn’t do a perfect job explaining 674 because it is way too convoluted in itself, involving my story with three girls and complicated background information about my situation in Grade 11...
24`But my approach did bring the teammates some new perspectives as I talked about how my Diary system developed over 10 years. Diary has now become an important part of my identity in the group, just as Ulysses is an RA! I’m actually satisﬁed with my performance since this is the ﬁrst time I speak for more than an hour without any script!
42`At the end I mentioned 493; as with on 11/18 (D5P95), my friends gave me some encouragement and advice, although I’ve tried much of them and doesn’t work... Rob and Mukhi know 493 from LNYF, and when they later taught the twelve of us dancing (which was another exciting and memorable experience), they paid special attention to teaching me so as to help me chase her...
24`White Americans generally take a more funny story-telling approach as they seem to have been through less “hardship”. Maybe I can also tell more interesting stories next time. Or keeping my analytical approach can also be good.
32`One interesting thing about our site is there is a very luxurious ladies’ restroom and a dilapidated gentleman restroom right across it. There’s only two bath rooms in the ladies’ which means we’ll have to go to ladies’ restroom every time we shower...
31`On 3/7 Coleman did his life map. He is active in our activities and frequently asks meaningful questions, and is also quite knowledgeable in our conversations. But his life map is ﬁlled with his negative experience, and this is a very different side from what I perceive him normally.
24`After his life map ended, Rob asked him his favorite thing about himself and Mukhi asked about his art. Then Rob made us go hand in hand and form a line with Coleman at the end, and then rolled up ourselves around him to form a circle, showing our support for him. Then two of our teammates went to console him individually; I was supposed to also go but I thought it might be better to leave him alone...
31`Although our site is under the “Homelessness and Poverty” category, and there are a lot of homeless people when we drive on the streets, we didn’t really do service for homeless and poor people; instead we did a lot of labor work for different organizations, and some of these are pretty dangerous when we need to carry heavy stones or stuff.
31`On 3/8 Emily and McKenzie did their life maps. Emily is a second-gen Taiwanese; she talked mainly about her experiences in the swimming team. McKenzie is, like Anna, a “typical American girl” with few setbacks in life and a lot of optimism and joy.
32`I didn’t sleep well on many days because the ground is way too hard. I slept less than 7 hours for seven days in a row; I often wake up one or two times at night. On 3/9 night Seungyeon, Anna, and I, as the ﬁnal dinner prep group, made fried rice together, and it was awesome; Besides dinner, we also prepare breakfast, and sometimes lunch, for ourselves. Everyone is super responsible and active in helping with the chore.
31`On 3/9 after dinner, my teammates suddenly began singing happy birthday song to me as a surprise, and then we ate cake together. I felt so much love and gratitude! Then Matt did his life map. His grandma was once forced to go to Utah in WWII because she was a Japanese; Matt, though, has long lost his Japanese heritage and now looks completely white. We did a closing ceremony afterwards. The details are in my WeChat post written in Chinese, which I wrote on 3/12 night and posted on 3/16.
24`I learned so many techniques for socializations in this trip! Although all these activities are great, they also require much time commitment and I have few chances to ﬁnish my homework. I’ve realized that these social skills are actually far easier to develop than academic skills, so they cannot become a core ability of me; however, it’s still essential that I grasp some of these skills in case I would need social expansion in the future. Right now I still want to be mainly quiet because “宁静致远” (D5P74-170821).
31`The day we left we sent three thank you cards to UNI, Nortown, and the Church, respectively. On 3/10 night we hanged out together in Rob’s house, and I drank some Vodka… Before that I took 1.5 hours to finish the warm-and-fuzzy to each teammate, and we exchanged our cards at the party. While I treated this quite seriously, many of my teammates didn’t; some of their comments are quite generic.
24`On our way back, Ulysses talked about his viewpoint of CS. He argues that it’s easy to get “spiritually lost” in Google and there’s too much politics working there, and because many software systems are maturely developed by now, it’d be uninteresting working just to maintain code or developing things people don’t need. That’s why he chose to intern at a medical company.
24`This contradicts my own viewpoint since I believe there are still way too many complicated problems to be solved in the real world, and it’s not a bad thing if you need political skills to succeed in a job. But his talk reminds me that I should not idealize Google based on its own advertising. He’s also interested in AI and may go to grad school!
