D5P129-180317
31`After the Stats mid-term on 3/14 (I scored 86, class average 76) and the CE mid-term on 3/15, this is my freest weekend in 2 months, so on 3/17 night I finally had time to finish the letter to Amanda on the book I have No Faith to Become an Atheist, which she lent to me 3 months ago. The contents of the letter are as follows:
<em>
31`Hi Amanda:
31`Thanks so much for the book! I read some of it during the winter break, and I have to say that the author’s arguments for theism is indeed potent and convincing. I have read about the formation of the universe and life long ago; although I was also curious about what happened before the Big Bang, I didn’t bother to explore further because I was told that it is unknown and there are only unverifiable hypotheses to explain it. Therefore, the idea that God created the universe is a fresh perspective for me. Indeed, the physics laws of the universe are so utterly incredibly precise, the chemical mechanisms of life is so incredibly delicate and complex, that it’s really compelling to hold a supernatural intelligent being accountable for all these beautiful creations.
31`(The rest of the book seems to be about some theological issues which I’m not quite interested in, although I’m indeed amazed by how Jesus fulfilled many prophecies in the Old Testament.)
33`However, I don’t think I’m going to become a Christian, because I believe I don’t need religion in my life. The author of this book mistakenly thinks that everyone in the world will undergo a spiritual journey in the search of life’s meaning and purpose, a journey to find out whether there is god or not. While this is the case in the US, it is not true in China, where we just don’t have this kind of religious environment. Westerners place great emphasis on religion; religion has much presence in their life and affects their mindsets. In China, people are much more focused on the secular parts of life; we’re not “convinced atheists”, we’re just irreligious. Since we’re young, we are told to study and not care about anything else, study for a better college, study for a better job, study for a better status. That’s life’s meaning for us. Note that this is the case in all East Asian cultures including in Korea, Japan and even Vietnam, whose cultures are heavily influenced by China’s.
33`Then, what is my faith? Many Westerners say that Chinese people don’t have faith. Some Chinese refute that our faith is our own history and culture. I strongly agree. China’s history is 5000 years long, and our homeland has nourished more people than any other part of the world (you can check out YouTube videos for progression of human population). Just think about it, with such a long time period and so many people, Chinese history is extremely complex, arguably richer than the stories in the Bible. Because of this, we can learn so many life lessons just through reading our own history (books, TV series, and movies about Chinese history are highly popular in China). The Chinese language also has many sayings that are extremely inspiring for our everyday life. Our ancestors created one of the most advanced cultures in the world, and we’ve relied on ourselves to achieve that. With the rapid rise of China’s power, more and more Chinese are becoming confident and starting to have faith in our own culture. You can see this trend from some popular cultural TV programs within the mainland nowadays, notably National Treasure. In all, Chinese people have faith in ourselves, instead of another thing (God).
33`You might also wonder, what is the philosophical system of Chinese civilization? After all, a major benefit of religion mentioned in the book is that it provides a standard for moral conduct, as well as an explanation for the fundamental things. In the 2nd century BC, Confucianism became the official philosophy of imperial China. At the time, Confucianism was a set of moral standards that did not address the origins of universe, etc. Another philosophy developed as one of the “Hundred Schools of Thought”, Daoism, states that Dao, the way, is the origin of everything. Later, the coming of Buddhism provided another perspective on life’s patterns, origins, and meanings. In the 12th century, during the Confucian revival, the neo-Confucians combined ideas from Daoism and Buddhism and formed a more systematic philosophy, which states that “principle” is everything’s origin. Entering the People’s Republic, communism became the official ideology. In our high school philosophy class, dialectical materialism teaches us the fundamental patterns of the universe. Also, the twelve Core Socialist Values, as well as some other slogans about morality, are seen on the streets and in TV advertisements.
31`Finally, you once mentioned that you want to get to know the Nanjingers at Vandy. While I really appreciate your eagerness to befriend us, I regret that this is not yet realized because of an apparent of opportunities, (and some of us are just obsessed with video games and don’t seem enthusiastic in meeting people). Anyway, you are a great friend, thank you for your birthday wishes, and hope we can keep on this exchange of our knowledge and values!
</em>
