D5P130-180319
31`On 3/19 I applied for the Highland Quad (which I didn’t get in and I don’t want to) and the McGill Project. On 3/20 night it snowed, which is weird since it was 26 ℃ 3 days ago.
13`During the winter break, I once envisioned several programming projects that I will work on in this semester. However, it turns out that since the semester starts, my CS learning remains mainly input-driven: reading about data structures, problem-solving techniques, etc. Recall how I practiced English writing infrequently but efficiently in GR3 Mode? If you don’t read, you can’t write—simple as that. Programming is similar. Although I don’t really program much now, I’m laying a foundation for an explosion in the future.
12`Building a programming project can be quite complicated; I may refer to my experience in building LNYS projects or proving complex Maths problems. This piece of diary is inspired after my head exploded when writing the postfix algorithm. The solution seems not hard, but you can reach so many dead ends before you get to it.
12`Last semester, my extracurricular learning system was based mainly on SoloLearn and KhanAcademy. Now, this has evolved to be based mostly on Brilliant, YouTube, and our high school textbooks. In the future when it’s time, I can initiate another reform of my extracurricular learning system by exploring online coding communities such as stackoverflow and github.
11`From 3/16 to 3/20 I spent more than 20 hours learning Digital Logic, which is record-breaking for a non-test-week class. Maybe because I didn’t have any foundation for such topics, I find this course very difficult. I took a lot of effort to understand concepts in Chapter 4, and there was a time when I pushed myself so hard that an anxiety attack almost broke out.
13`The reason is that such learning requires intense concentration and mental arousal, and after studying I won’t immediately relax, so when this excitement stays, mental problems can arise.
11`However, I’ve begun to enjoy this course more and more as I gain a much deeper understanding into automation, especially after I broke an important bottleneck on 3/19 and again entered the eureka state when all the knowledge began intertwining irresistibly in my head.
11`This round of intense learning culminated in the DL Lab 8 of 3/22. I designed a quite complicated state machine, and although I took great care in avoiding mistakes, my circuit still didn’t work quite well. I and my partner took about an hour to debug, and eventually I found that I connected one input to X-bar when it should be connected to X. I’m quite satisfied with my design! Such is the difficulty and charisma of engineering.
13`As my progress proceeds at almost unprecedented rate, I have begun to ponder on the fundamental reason that we make mistakes in tests, etc. Sometimes we just miss some information in the problem even when we grasped the concepts well. How to avoid that?
14`The downside to such thinking is, again, excessive self-expectation: I cannot stand it and become frustrated when I don’t do something well. Knowing this attitude is harmful since it prevents me from tolerating and reflecting on my mistakes and thinking long-run (like May 2016), I actively adjusted myself. But I’m still glad that I’m setting higher and higher standards for myself.
13`One of my essential goals in academic life is the establishment of a love for learning that will motivate me for years to come. To achieve this, I need to proceed step by step and gradually push myself harder and harder. Relaxation is important since it fosters sustainable development; also, when relaxing I’m largely learning social science knowledge or watching intellectual YouTube videos.
13`Another essential goal is the increase of study efficiency. As I pointed out on 9/27, at the ideal level, I should be able to understand a concept only in a short time and then remember it for a long time. This is achieved by a solid foundation of knowledge so that I can quickly make connections; by intense training so that my brain capacities are enhanced.
13`At this time, there are certain things that I have to give up. Also, there are certain things that I should not yet care about since the answer to these questions will naturally become clear with the accumulation of knowledge and experience. For example, I should worry less about what others are doing and what I should do in the far future.
