D5P131-180324
31`On 3/23 I went to Rob’s roommate’s party and drank some alcohol. On 3/24, 671 invited me to attended the Commodore Quest along with 120 and 982. Along with 139, these 4 people might have become my best friends now. Later 982 taught the three of us “contract bridge”, and we spent a great time together. This is good since I’ve spent a pretty intense time learning about computer hardware these days, and definitely need some relaxation.
34`It’s worth noting that on 3/21 night, perhaps because I slept too less in the previous 3 weeks—perhaps only 7 hours on average, with pretty bad quality and frequent dreams—I felt an intense dizziness and had to lie on the bed for the entire night. My brain functionality has since then declined noticeably although I force myself to sleep early and get up late, and by now (Sunday, 3/25) I still can’t have enough focus when learning maths. By the end of last week, I still couldn’t get a good sleep every night.
42`On 3/26 morning, I dreamed that I made a love confession to 493 on a social media, and my post got more than 26,000 likes. The dream was so lucid that I still had a strange feeling lingering around after I woke up. (I should have dreamed about 493 up to 15 times, but most of the time the content of the dream was quickly forgotten.)
14`Last week I also had a nightmare about crushing on the Transportation exam (where in fact I turned out to have gotten 99%). How can I enhance my sleep quality??
23`Recently I’ve spent significant time thinking about my academic history, especially Zhongkao and ACT Prep. Because I encounter a lot of problems under the quite intense life, the best way I can figure out how to solve them is to look back and see how I tried to solve similar problems in the past. In addition, by constantly thinking about the best periods of my personal academic history—2014 and 2016—and regarding Me from the Past as my role model, I’m also building up much greater confidence and motivation.
13`Thanks to my habit of recording my studying modes in the past 5 years! It helps me put my current state into perspective and predict my future performance. The history of the People’s Republic is also a vital source of inspiration.
23`Indeed, the more I learn and better myself and gain more opportunities, the more problems I will encounter. Similar principles apply to the society as well, as the growing complexity of our society requires more skilled people. And, the more difficult a person’s job is, the more mistakes he will make because of the complexity of the situation.
23`Now I spend a great deal of time thinking about what I did in April 2016; similarly, when I begin working in the future, my ACT tutor experience is expected to become an important source for reference. Thanks again Diary! Looking back at my old self, I know that many fundamental qualities only gets reinforced over time; however, I also had a lot of weaknesses.
33`I often compare the formation of my personal quality with the formation of world cultures, especially China and the West. What qualities do we have that the West don’t? And vise versa? These comparisons helped me greatly in evaluating myself. Hopefully one day I can fully elaborate my thoughts because now I only have these vague feelings.
23`The speed at which my weaknesses are eliminated is so high that I often feel a sense of discomfort, as I need time for the new quality to sink in. Recall how often I’ve felt this way after the revolution of 5/0 Incident?
31`On 3/25 night I made a bus stop model using the Nike shoebox for the McGill interview on 3/26, which required a “creative piece”. The interview went pretty well, and some of my social skills & confidence developed in ASB became really useful. On 4/1 I got admitted into McGill. I was assigned to room 304.
12`In my spare time I sometimes read the CS2231 ppts that 493 sent me on 3/21. Thanks to the DL class, the Computer Memory quiz that I finished on Brilliant, and many YouTube videos on computer hardware mechanisms (especially Ben Eater, whose videos have accompanied me for much of my spare time recently), I can understand much of the contents in CS2231 more easily.
14`Occasionally I would read some articles that talk about learning is becoming “useless” because knowledge is updating rapidly or AI are taking over many jobs. I doubt whether these essays are written “intentionally by the ruling class so as to create anxiety among the populace and stall their motivation to learn.”
14`From my recent experience, the situation in which the things I learned get almost immediate use in life, whether in social interactions, or solving problems, or in helping me learning other related knowledge, or shape quality and confidence in general—has happened a huge number of times. I can’t find words to describe the benefits of studying.
13`My studying system has grown increasingly sophisticated, with so many components that need to be coordinated. Because there are so many of them—social life, health, direction, motivation, attitude, time management, environment, materials—that I can never achieve optimized states in all of these aspects, but I’m still striving to improve.
13`I’m also increasingly appreciating the huge number of ways of effective learning. There are so many methods that using one method at a time for one course is enough. Thinking from the perspective of teachers, visualization, talking with other people… the list goes on and on.
13`In LinAlg classes I continue to pay full attention without making much notes; in Stats and DL, however, I can only hastily copy what the teacher writes and then try to understand my notes afterwards. This is a “second-best” tactic, as I had planned to not take notes in classes as an ideal method.
13`Sometimes I would again enter the state of rapid knowledge integration, but unlike in January, I no longer feel intense excitement when this happens. My prediction came true! Indeed, there is no reason to feel complacent because everyone knows some valuable things that I don’t know, and it’s crucial that I keep humble and acknowledge how less I know. Time continue to pass slowly as there are so many things that can be done in a day.
23`I always think about why I think of NFLS kind of negatively. Now I know it’s because I failed to take advantage of the human resources that’s actually abundant in my high school life, instead blindly socializing with a lot of meaningless people. Now, on the other hand, I and other dashens are naturally attracted to each other, and I simply ignore those who don’t share with me the same values in favor of being alone, thus I feel Vandy is better than NFLS.
