D5P132-180329
31`Now I’ve started a new ACT writing teaching session with Rainbow Academy. Since college starts and as of the last session, I have earned ¥2700+ for being an ACT writing tutor. Plus the ¥5900+ I earned in 2017, I am expected to break the ¥10,000 benchmark after this round of essay commenting.
31`I actually asked for a price raise, but Vicky says that they’re not yet making profit, and asked for my understanding and support—just like last July. I of course understand them as a start-up, and commenting on these essays and writing new sample essays is actually an extremely enriching experience that I’ll do even if I don’t get paid.
31`On 3/27 Hank kitchen is closed because someone microwaved paper towel and started a fire. This is bad news for me since I sometimes (usually at weekends) would buy Munchie and microwave for dinner. The ofo bikes are introduced in Vandy campus; this is the first time I see a Chinese business in the States??
31`On 3/27 the RD (regular decision of college admissions) results are released, and many 2022ers joined the group chat. Tons of people pour in the campus to attend guided tours, and the Hank Ingram that I live in is often crowded with visitors.
41`On 3/27 night 493 asked me a homework question in Digital Logic, and we held a discussion about it. We then planned to visit the prof in his office hour together on 3/28, and although the plan didn’t realize, I felt quite happy about it. This round of increasing friendship culminated in an accident on 3/29. Before this I’m only spending about 1% of my daily time thinking about 493, but…
41`On 3/29 after I finished the lab, I decided to go to Stevenson to study and accidentally encountered 493. I was quite nervous but then decided to sit with her. She asked me a lot of questions about the recent materials in DL, and I guided her through this week’s DL lab. I also pulled out the CS 2231 ppts and asked her some questions.
41`Then 619, who also sat in Stevenson, saw us from a distance and began laughing wildly, and when she left she came to us and kept saying to me “don’t show off!” I pretended that I don’t know what she’s talking about and said “it’s just a coincidence…” I spent about 2.5 hours with 493 (4:15 ~ 6:45 PM) and we actually spent a great time together!
41`I’ve envisioned that we study together since 5 months ago, but today it’s the first time this is ever realized. And it turns out that it’s more about me tutoring her than about she teaching me, though she does offer much valuable info about her life as a TA and sophomore. Hopefully I’ve shown my academic competence and have impressed her; this confirms the usefulness of studying once again (as always, I’ve spent significant time on DL recently)!
42`I got so excited after this that I couldn’t concentrate on studies for more than an hour. Right now I really don’t want myself to be disturbed by a love experience, because I’m at the height of my personal progress—almost every hour of my life I’m striving to learn something new, come up with new ideas, and improve myself. My motivation can easily break, with it my entire plan for personal development, and I don’t want that to happen.
43`Influenced by the 5/0 Incident, I have always considered a love experience as a great chance to increase my EQ and IQ, but if we get too excited, all it does is stall my academic progress.
13`Now I spend a great deal of time learning about computer hardware, hoping this knowledge will assist me when I begin the knowledge explosion of CS. (I do this also because DL class is much harder to handle than CS, and since I’m immersed in it, I’m just used to learning it.) If my motivation breaks, my long-term goal of becoming a good programmer will collapse.
13`Now is the most critical time for me to establish the kind of genuine interest into CS, a strong study momentum that’s rooted in me, and a virtuous cycle. As I said, interest comes from mastery, and mastery comes from overcoming the initial stages of pain! I need to take pain and avoid any form of stimulus that cause me to become complacent!
13`These three months, every day I learn almost five times as much compared to Grade 10. I learn with great concentration, strong curiosity, high motivation, and deep memory, and I learn more than 10 hours a day. I always refer to the 3-4 Prep of April 2016 to gain inspiration, because that month represents the best of me in terms of study efficiency, attitude, and motivation—and the studying mode, attitude, and inertia that is formed at that time became an important legacy that affects me even today.
13`I think about why my efficiency declined after April 2016, how my efficiency gradually builds itself up over time since Mar 2014, and how the 5/0 Incident shaped my values and attitudes.
14`Do I want to experience the frustration that devastated me in late 2013 and late 2015? Do I want to always be in the state of Feb 2018 when I feel very satisfied with everything? If so, keep up the hard work and stop the excitement!
14`Well, I admit that at this stage of the semester, it’s kind of inevitable that I experience some sort of motivation depletion. I was so motivated in January, and that cost me quite a lot of energy. I’m aware that sometimes a total relaxation might not disturb the accumulation of inertia, but instead help me regain motivation.
42`Many times, I hoped that this state of undeclared relationship continues to motivate me for 500 days (starting Jan 1, 2018), by the end of which my abilities would have surpassed 493 and I’d have become strong enough to deal with any challenge. Then, if we’re together, we’ll enjoy life and love; if not, it doesn’t matter anymore. Now only 90 days has passed since my 500-day plan, and if I keep up my progress, it’s possible that I surpass 493’s schoolwork progress by as early as the end of 2018.
