D5P133-180403
22`On 3/31 I hanged out with our CHIA group. The result for VUSE summer research program should be released on 4/2, but I didn’t receive any reply. On 4/3 I asked about it at Prof. Work’s class; before I asked him, I thought about what I should say in case he admitted me or declined me. To my surprise, he replied that the result of this program is out of his control. He says that 200 to 300 people applied to 80 research programs, and then he nominates some candidates, after which everything’s left to a coordinator to decide.
22`Anyway, I will write a letter to Prof. Work at the end of the semester to thank him for his class and maybe set the stage of future research cooperation. I’ll explain that I am still building a more solid foundation for my coding skills and don’t want to brag about myself, but I’m really interested in his research areas and also impressed by his teaching skills and qualities. I’ll ask him for suggestions as to what I can do in the summer.
14`On 4/2 night I was suddenly struck by an intense feeling of nostalgia. I think irresistibly of the happy, worriless times of my life, when I traveled around the US, played games with my sister, and hanged out with my classmates and friends. In contrast, normally I always think about the golden age of my personal development—Zhongkao and ACT Prep, when I was undergoing rigorous academic progress, and I normally regard those “happy times” as bad since I didn’t work hard then.
14`Indeed, after nearly three months of hard work and suppression of happiness, my desire for relaxation has perhaps reached a critical point. I don’t quite know whether I should relax now, and if so, for how long. Hopefully the time it takes for me to recharge will be short enough so that I can deal with the coming final exams. In late January I also experienced this motivation depletion, but only took a few days to recover.
42`Recently as my performance in the Digital Logic class is quite good—as I learned much contents in advance in my spare time, I am active in class, and I have helped 493 prepare for exam and doing homework. Previously when her attitude towards me is not quite good, my emotions were not very normal, as whenever her attitude changes, my mood will fluctuate up or down sharply.
11`I have observed that the difficulty of DL lies in the fact that we need to apply what we learned to solve real problems and really design things. Imagine our linear algebra exercises are all about building mathematical models in an application problem; that’d be really painful, since understanding the problem itself will take a ton of effort! Luckily, Maths classes are mainly theoretical.
13`As my efficiency declines recently, the drawback of not listing plans when studying is becoming obvious. When I’m highly motivated, I don’t quite need to plan because I can do anything with high efficiency, but when I’m lax, not keeping track of what I do every day will cause me to not be alerted. In the summer vacation I’ll definitely set up plans for each week.
11`I scored 100% on the DL test of 4/4; class average is 88%. Thanks to my 80+ hours of effort in the past three weeks, I finished the exam within 25 minutes without much trouble. I again scored 100% in the CS test of 4/5, partly due to luck; class average is 84.5, and I’m one of 2 people in 180 to get a full score.
14`Added on 180404: With my summer research application rejected, I started to seriously consider what I should do in the 100 days of summer vacation. Originally I believed that without the research program, I’ll have more freedom to enhance myself for better opportunities in the future, but now I’ve realized that I’ll be much less motivated in the summer. If I plan to graduate in 3 years, it means that a crucial 70 days may be lost.
14`Well, not necessarily, as long as I find a way to effectively motivate myself. If I push myself to read CS textbooks, I will definitely be wasting time. I will need to come up with a hands-on project that makes me addicted to work on, and I’ll have plenty of time to explore what I can make with programming—animation? Database? Website? Games?... Hopefully I can build up a personal project that will motivate me for a long time.
13`Relaxation, of course, is necessary for my sustainable development, but how should I relax myself to achieve the best effect? When relaxing, I should fully enjoy the present while learning some soft skills such as social skills.
24`As my social skills and social awareness enhanced since college, I know I must contact my old friends and hang out with them more. I will ask Mom to help me explore the interesting locations in Nanjing so that I can bring my friends there, and I’ll come up with a list of friends that I want to talk to. This will be an important change compared to how I spent the post-app, and it shows how much I’ve changed in the past year!
32`In my spare time, I can also read more novels or history, watch movies, or learn swimming and stuff. I will also ask Dad to bring me to visit more people and activities, and, if possible, provide some internship opportunities. I’ll also try educating 697. In all, I believe this will be a fruitful, enriching, and busy summer, and I look forward to it!!
12`Recently I’ll also download some good YouTube videos so that I can watch them in the summer vacation. Now YouTube is playing a huge role in my academic progress.
