D5P135-180409
32`On 4/8, 120 ran for the vice president for the McGill council. Although she made a good speech, the other candidate still got the vast majority of votes. Does that have something to do with 120 being a Chinese international student? This caused me to think about the “politics” of why people choose certain people over others.
13`I feel that when thinking about these issues, my brain can also enter a state of rapid thinking as my knowledge base is much larger. I believe this is partly the result of rigorous training of my brain when learning engineering and maths subjects recently, and the enhancement of IQ helped in dealing with other problems as well. Hurray!
22`For days I’ve been thinking about whether my conservative strategy in pursuing research opportunities is wrong. I never want to brag about my abilities, but is this really the best choice? My thought was that if I am strong enough, I’d have the freedom to choose which project I work on instead of having to effortfully “chase” any prof.
22`However, it’s a little more difficult if I just rely on myself to become stronger. Failing to reach out to profs might make my pace of progress slower. Also, sometimes it’s good to exaggerate about my abilities; elites do this all the time!
12`Now I continue to build my CPU simulator programming project. This project may become a major driving force for me in the summer vacation, and as of now it is extremely efficient in enhancing my understanding of both software and hardware.
13`When preparing for the Stats exam I’m trying a new method of tackling Maths exams: learn to numerically estimate the result.
34`My sleep quality recently is still very bad, making me unable to “burn my brain” during much of the day. I’m kind of used to the state of alertness every day, but this has significantly interfered with my sleep. On 3/21 I forced myself to lie on the bed early and then slowly adjusted myself, but three weeks later the good sleep quality is gone again.
14`Now I continue to push myself hard and force myself to be motivated, but will this be dangerous and cause me to eventually collapse at some point? Well, I still think it’s good to push myself, since motivation is easy to dissipate but hard to gain. Even if mental problems do occur, keep in mind that all elites probably encountered similar problems, and I am confident that I have powerful self-detection and adjustment mechanisms to recover from any event within a short time.
24`Now I am increasingly isolated from the 4-person group of 133, 139, 413, and 544. This isolation makes me feel bad sometimes, and since 133 and 139 are CS, I am bound to miss many chances and information, but I tell myself that the cost of sticking to them is greater than the benefits, and now I have to endure any loneliness for the sake of concentration.
24`Of course, this doesn’t mean severing connections with them. As Lovi once said, if you walk alone, you walk quickly; if you walk together, you walk steadily. Both have advantages and drawbacks.
14`To avoid being distracted by some of my peers, I sometimes refer to some principles in military or athletics to inspire me. Before and during a battle, an unconditional confidence, an unshakable faith, and a single aim is what drives a person or team to succeed. That faith is important for the fighting spirits, even if it might not be perfect.
14`Now I’m trying to build up a motivation to finish up to 1,500 more Brilliant.org Maths problems in the summer vacation. When solving problems I still constantly question the utility, but as I pointed out, if I want to be a Maths major, I should learn any math with enthusiasm, regardless of whether it’s directly related to my course. That spirit will also help me when I connect with profs or employers!
