D5P137-180417
13`Tonight I plotted the chart for my daily sleeping time in excel, and it follows a normal distribution with mean of 7.5 and stdev slightly more than 1. I believe that my daily study efficiency can also be described with a normal distribution. This can help me predict my speed of progress in the next semester. I would expect that I’d have a high efficiency for about 1/2 of the days, medium to low efficiency for 1/3, and total relaxation for 1/6 of the days.
14`Recently I’m inspired by the great minds in human history: Napoleon can work a dozen hours every day; Karl Marx could get immersed into reading sociology texts for a long time; Sang Hongyang, an economist in Western Han, can discuss his policy for several days without stopping.
13`Although it is ideal to be like them, and I did have entered similar states when learning English in April 2016, it isn’t wise to expect that I can achieve the same amount of passion when learning math, at least as of now—I would have to have good rests whenever I study for too long.
13`The imperfections of my mostly self-motivated progress system have caused me to look back at how Chinese schools are set up. Inside schools, there are plenty of slogans and axioms to motivate and bolster students; this is less common in the US. Those Gaokao-oriented “training death camps” may be effective for those who lack self-control, and its spirits of militarized management, and a hard-working surrounding without distractions, are indeed inspiring, but I would not want to be restricted and completely follow a predesigned path.
31`Recently I finished Crash Course Astronomy. I was intensely interested in Astronomy and cosmology in childhood and 9th Grade, and so is now.
13`This subject sheds light on two incredibly important perspectives for examining the world: diversity and scale. For example, there are about 10,000 people in my environment, but a country’s population is 10,000 times bigger than that.
14`I expect to finish up to 7 new Brilliant.org courses—solve about 1,500 to 2,000 more problems, about 15~20 each day—to help me prepare for future academics. They are: Mathematical Fundamentals, Number Theory, Calculus, Diff Equations, Group Theory, CS Algorithms, and Machine Learning. I should have a strong faith that whatever I learn will be super useful in the future, and I should set periodic goals to motivate me.

21`On 4/19 night I talked to Mom about whether I should finish a PhD degree. She argued that the research experience can only be acquired through the training at a college, though I question whether it’s worth 5 years doing so, discarding a golden time for experiencing the workforce.
21`I have spent significant time exploring career paths, mostly through the WeChat Official Accounts I subscribed in Grade 12, and as I said in that Chinese summary essay, there are so many ways to realize my full potential that I don’t seem to have to get a PhD degree that soon. She does make a point that if you go PhD, you’ll have the chance to enhance your academic skills with much less interference than if you work.
14`If I determine that I’ll go PhD now, it would have profound impact on my lifestyle and motivation system. Currently, I only have short-term plans within no more than 2 years. The primary source of my motivation is a desire to challenge myself to the limits like I did throughout this semester, in the process becoming a person with qualities everyone else would want, and finally forming a virtuous cycle in all aspects of life. I regard long term plans as unnecessary since it leads me to focus less on what I should do now.
43`I also aim to catch up on 493, despite some drawbacks of doing so, mainly it creates great instability in my mood. My 500-day plan—study 4,000 hours to catch up on her and finally graduate in 3 years—is primarily motivated by it. After half a year, I have basically gotten used to liking her and using this as a driving force.
