D5P138-180423
32`Today is the last day of classes. On 4/22 a shooting occurred in Nashville and 4 people are killed. On 4/23 I formally declared a CS major with a second major in Mathematics. I’m still carefully considering whether to graduate in 3 years.
14`Since 4/13, I have been generally depressed because of the incident on 4/13, and the “regression of quality” of January appeared again. Like in January, I struggled to deal with my abnormal mood and attitude, by generating various proposals for why I am in this state. Today I try to adjust myself by going to the Spring Fest in the Rec, trying out bowling and facial.
14`At night, I read a lot of history, relaxed and gained much satisfaction, and the “regression of quality” dissipated. I realize that I may need to add a new “golden age” of my personal development—the post-app season—apart from the GR’s. The biggest characteristic of that period is the complete immersion in reading for long periods of time without any pressure or target in mind. This is different from all GR’s, and compared to my violent progression in this semester, that kind of relaxed learning does offer many benefits. On 4/24 I, 493, Dr. Bhuvat, and some other people had a great time playing badminton.
42`Looking back, after the incident on 4/13, my negative emotions gradually accumulated and had a terrible self-reinforcing tendency, partly because I have far less things to do now and I spend some of my spare time thinking about things I shouldn’t be thinking about—just like the 5/0 Period.
14`There was a time when that self-denial was interfering with my normal life quite a lot, and I tried many relaxation techniques (watch soccer, talk with friends…) but didn’t work, causing a vicious cycle.
34`The self-strengthening property of emotions is an important lesson for me, as I should not suppress my confidence too much. If I’m in very bad mood, the result will be more disastrous than if I have an oversupply of confidence or even hubris, as I will become vulnerable and dare not do things, and it would be somewhat harder to adjust back once the negative emotion is already beginning to reinforce itself.
23`Of course, similar situations have appeared multiple times in 2016—late March, late May, early Sept. In all cases, once the negative emotions reached a critical point, it will stop self-strengthening as I will be actively and consciously adjusting myself; at first my adjustment methods might not work, but with trial and error, eventually I’ll figure out a solution. Now, overcoming this round of bad mood has made me a stronger person, and my problem-solving & attitude-adjusting skills increased again!
