D5P101-171207
13`Recently I’ve watched many videos on YouTube. Apart from the “History of the entire world” by Bill, which I’ve watched dozens of times, I’ve subscribed many high-quality intellectual video makers such as Kurzgesagt, Geography Now, Oversimplified, Crash Course, etc. These videos expanded my outlook rapidly and benefitted my critical thinking, although their topics are diverse (Astrophysics, History…) and often not related to my major. I also listen to music on YouTube when I need relaxing.
12`These videos have convinced me that knowledge is being presented in increasingly interesting ways now. With these new, more effective learning methods, the next generation will be cleverer than us. Also, I can achieve lifelong learning by making use of these extensive materials on the internet. I’ve also spent much time reading our high school history textbooks and sometimes on Zhihu about Chinese history.
13`I’ve discussed the benefits of learning history in detail in D5P69, and the change that reading history has brought to me is obvious. Another benefit not mentioned there is that when reading history, you’re reading about the life of the smartest people ever lived.
14`On 12/7 I dreamed about crashing in the Psychology final exam. I’ve quite frequently dreamed about getting bad grades… The dream was so real that I can still remember the fright I experienced when seeing the result. As 982 points out, I might have worried about it too much during the day.
31`On 12/8 noon I met a new friend, Amanda, whose parents are from Anhui and who lives in Hank-404 and majors in MHS (Medicine, Health, and Society). Our conversation gradually turned into a hot discussion about religion and philosophy that lasted nearly an hour.
33`When I say that the vast majority of people in China are irreligious, she is curious and doesn’t seem to understand what the people are thinking, and keep coming up with various questions, saying that she can learn while asking.
“All of us contemplate about the philosophical questions sometime in our lives. Without religion, how do people explain their life and have a purpose for living?” I responded that we Chinese just don’t believe in any god or mysterious forces because we have always been so in our history, although this might appear strange to Westerners.
33`Amanda’s a firm supporter of theism; when I say that science can explain everything (that’s what our Marxist high school philosophy textbook says), she asks me how to explain why the Big Bang happened and what happened before the Big Bang, and says that only “god” can explain that, and even talked about a scientific paper to prove the existence of god. I can’t refute so I resorted to the idea of Agnosticism.
33`Then, she gave a 15-minute speech about the Bible and story of Christianity, and I was very impressed by her eloquence. I learned about the origins of seven-day week, the origins of sins, and how Jesus loves people and is willing to compensate for humanity’s sins by having himself crucified.
33`I, on the other hand, discussed the constraining effects of Hinduism on India’s social mobility, the core ideas of Buddhism which I learned in Chinese history class, and the argument that Christianity does more harm than good to China because of the West’s cultural dominance and replacement, but sometimes didn’t explain very well because my understanding is not deep enough.
24`This is perhaps the most intellectually intense and inspiring conversation I have had in this semester. My extensive reading has paid off, and she praised me for not playing video games and liking to read. I’m so glad that I’ve met a friend who can have such intellectual discussions with me, although sometimes the topic becomes so in-depth that my head is exploding, like I did when touring the Art Museum in Chicago…
13`Recently I’ve been mainly studying in my dorm, compared to the start of the semester where I tried differing study spots. This is not beneficial to my studies.
