D5P102-171209
11`On 12/9 morning I finished the General Psychology finals, consisting of the 4th MC (multiple choice) test and 3 essays that are assigned to us beforehand. The essays are easy, as we’re allowed to bring a little paper copy of our essays and then just copy them. The multiple choice, however, was extraordinarily difficult.
11`After the 3rd multiple choice test, the professor adjusted the grading criteria, and an average of 80% on 4 MC tests—instead of an 80%+ on each exam—is now needed to get an A. This means that I only need a 64%, or 42 out of 65 questions, on the finals, to fulfill that criteria for A. So after having done a good job on the practice review questions yesterday, I didn’t pay much more attention to reviewing for the finals.
11`The MC tests turned out almost strikingly different from the practice tests, and many questions ask about concepts I’ve never even heard of. To do well on the exam you literally have to devour every detail of hundreds of pages of textbook. I counted the problems I’m 100% sure I’m right. The result was about 35 out of 65.
11`Because of the (quite unreasonable) grading criterion, for me, a score of 41 or 42 will mean the difference between a C and an A, which will mean a 0.4 difference on my GPA this semester and a 0.05 difference on my overall GPA. These are very significant figures. After the test, I allowed myself for some time to experience the intense feeling of defeat, although it doesn’t seem very likely that I’ll really get that C.
12`After the finals ended, I’ve kept on learning CS and linear algebra with a goal of reaching the state of immersion, and have downloaded an auditory book about ancient history on Audible.com. I learned about this website from the reference in YouTube videos; this is similar to the “hutui” (mutual referrals) of WeChat public accounts. At the end of a video, there are typically some advertisements leading me to another relevant channel or website. Through YouTube videos, I’ve gotten to know many interesting websites.
12`Apart from Vsauce and some other users I mentioned before, 3Blue1Brown has been a particularly useful channel for me. The producer is a Maths teacher whose videos and articles on Khan Academy helped me appreciate the meaning of multivariable calc this semester (our classes are just dull demonstration of formulas and hardly ever talk about the intuition). On YouTube, his deep understanding of Maths and his extremely skillful use of animation in illustrating Maths concepts have immensely inspired me.
12`I went to Dr. Neuert’s lab on 12/15 and went on to work on that little Matlab program. My job is to write an interactive interface based on the original code, but since the original code is pretty complicated, things often go wrong and it often takes a long time to identify the problem. This helped me understand how important it is to be well-organized, well-tested, and well-documented in very large programs.
22`Dad has talked about finding internships in Zhongkeyuan for me, which is great news. I kind of doubt whether it will actually work (in the 2016 summer internship, I basically did nothing meaningful), but I believe that with his and Mom’s extensive network, there will be endless opportunities. How to find these opportunities and take advantage of them?
32`I flew back on 12/16 with 133. For several days I slept from 21 or 22 to 5. My GPA last semester was, without much suspense, 3.92. The ED results of Class of 2022 is out, but I’m too lazy to care about it.
