D5P104-171224
33`On 12/22 I and Mom go to Xiamen by CRH. There are more Party’s slogans here, more tropical and seaside trees and sceneries, and as many tall newlybuilt apartments. On 12/23 we toured Gulangyu, and I ate seafood for the first time in life; much food in Xiamen is seafood, which is bad news for me. On 12/24 we toured the tulou. On 12/25 we visited Xiamen University and its characteristic fresco tunnel, and then went to a Qing-dynasty battlefield remnant. 
12`During the trip I continue to listen to the ancient world history book, learn linear algebra and CS, and experience the difference between Chinese and Western cultures.
I often can’t concentrate enough when studying data structures; I know it’s because I don’t know much about it, so I’m slowly building a knowledge foundation like I did with English many years ago, waiting for a time when my progress start to explode like in ACT Prep.
23`In my spare time, I sometimes think about the open questions I posted in previous diaries, such as how to replicate my glory in Ballance bar, as well as the connection among various knowledges. 
14`I also think about my plans for the future; I want to use my spare time in college to build more computer programs, first a program to help me solve linear algebra problems (I first came up with this idea in mid-Dec). 
31`I also desire to break free from Mom’s control over the planning of the trip and everyday life. I’m aware that my self-learn abilities are made possible by Mom’s non-interference, and am trying hard to become independent in daily life too, such as finding restaurants or traveling by myself, etc.
33`On 12/19 I rode along first Line 4 all the way to Huitong Road Station and then rode back along Line 2. At more than 42 kilometers in 5 hours, it’s the longest distance I rode in one day. On my way back I was so tired that at Jinma Road, I took Line 4 to the destination and spent an hour on the train to have some rest. I love riding alone in Nanjing city, and I’m impressed by the development of Xianlin new area. Although I couldn’t walk steadily after returning home, I recovered surprisingly quickly from the fatigue. On 12/20 Mom took me to Huangongjian. 
12`In my spare time, I continue to learn linear algebra, machine learning, data structures, programming, etc. because I really don’t have much to do otherwise. This spirit of self-learn everything in advance is becoming a part of me, and with my speed of progress now, I doubt whether 17 credits would be not enough for me in the following semester. 
12`On 12/28 I begin to work on the Linear Algebra calculation program. I took about an hour to finish a recursive algorithm for finding the determinant of an n by n matrix, and had a great sense of achievement. However, I took some trials and errors, and as Leemz2002 points out, I should have thought more carefully to get things right in the first time, instead of constantly debugging. 
31`On 12/28 I went to NFLS and attended the New Year Gala. I met some friends, but didn’t talk much with them because there’s not much meaningful to talk about. Many asked me why I’m giving up Civil Engineering (they actually said architecture), and I replied that CS is a foundation that I might need when I pursue a CE PhD.
23`I met Mr. Yin Shangning, our revered Maths teacher, who talked about the life paths of his previous students and taught us the pros and cons of different paths (stay at US or return; go for grad school or research, or work after graduation; marry right after college or later...). He also talks about the importance of networks and grades.
43`At school, I saw 621; she was intimate with her boyfriend, who I don’t know (Note on July 1, 2020: he was 540). I had wanted to invite her to dinner and “apologize” to her, but now it seems unnecessary. Somehow I’m quite happy that she is happy. My experience with 621 has greatly contributed to my personal growth anyway.
41`I also saw 488 and 493 in the NFLS reunion; previously I’ve been quite afraid of seeing 493 because of the uncertainties of our future, but at the moment of seeing her my emotions somehow dissipated.
Btw, I still want to say that, choosing 493 as my goal will mean that I’ll be placed in an inferior position in the relationship, but I believe that this is very necessary for my growth.
As of now, I would rather secretly like an elder girl and endure the pain, than to enjoy a passionate love with someone who likes me. I’ve experienced both inferior and superior relationships, and I know my mindsets and attitudes in these different conditions. This decision is the right thing to do.
12`By 12/30, the day zyBooks expires, my motivation for reading it has depleted, but with two weeks of effort, I’ve finished at least 90% of the remaining 13 chapters. By now, I no longer feel uncomfortable when learning CS in advance, like I did in November. With my self-control efforts at the beginning of learning, it is gradually becoming a spontaneous activity. My previous research into my own academic history proved extremely useful! 
13`Of course, unlike social sciences where I can read a text for several hours nonstop, CS and Maths can be energy-consuming, and I’ll need to figure out a way to relax whenever my brain’s energy is depleted. My concentration is not good enough also, because some of the materials are hard to understand. Hopefully when I know more, I can enter a state of exponential growth like in Apr 2016.
32`On 12/29 the family went to a hot spring. Now I sleep between 22:30 and 6:30. On 12/30 I cut my hair. At 72 days since last haircut, it breaks the record again. My hair don’t seem to grow as fast as previously; in 2015 summer my hair soon grew very long in less than 60 days. 
