D5P72-170811
23`Since returning home from Lijiang on 8/10, I’ve started to prepare for the move-in. By now, after a year of exploring, I’ve basically determined the fundamental strategies and directions for college life, and this gave me more conﬁdence and guidance. As of now, though I pretty much know what to do in Academics, Social, and Love, I sorely lack experiences in Life.
32`Learning how to live well and navigate through the resources in daily lives is a crucial task for my ﬁrst week of college, so now I have to suspended my reading on history.
32`Added on 170815: As it turns out, the Life part is not as difficult as I think. There are so many people, peers or advisors, to help us, and well, previously I’ve lived in dorms for 2 years and also lived by myself for 2 months in G10F. So I restarted reading history to occupy spare time, and also writing my college plan in Chinese (though my Chinese writing skills have declined signiﬁcantly).
33`Since arriving at the US, I’ve been observing the situations here to deepen my understanding of the contents written by Awing. Were it not for the US’ mistakes in the 1990s, China will probably be divided into 7 countries and become Syria, and the west will really lead the world for several hundred more yrs, and we’ll deﬁnitely not have the chance today.
The ground here is exceptionally flat: all plains, hardly mountains; so the population is distributed in the houses throughout the country, unlike in China where people live in a centralized manner, which is, although more crowded, more eﬃcient in terms of conducting various activities. The climate here is indeed more extreme, making it more expensive for industrial production.
33`Even though I deeply understand how great China is, I am still deeply attracted by the US since arriving. Most of the commodities here are cheaper, the people are friendly, patient, diverse, and civilized, and there are so many more that are more mature and advanced than China.
Employment seems not as low as some posts described. The English language is more succinct than Chinese in some cases (such as the use of verbs), but less convenient in many others. I’ll explore people’s impression on China recently.
31`On 8/15 my Daily Check in Ballance bar suspended for the ﬁrst time in 4.5 years. I won’t keep the qiandao in future. On 8/15 night many Chinese people played wolfers, and the level of the players are really low compared to Class 4.
I met some new people and asked them questions that I was interested in. While others always start with what’s your major, I’d like to know the history of your country and city, your opinions on China, and what religion you practice.
