D5P73-170817
32`This morning when I saw the email from Office of Student Compliance that urged me to complete the online modules (or else I’d be held by them as "unaccountable"), I was so frightened that I spent 5 minutes to calm down.
13`I then think about the general trend of studying inertia consumption. When we first enter school, we tend to be conscientious and are afraid that we do anything wrong, but over time, as we find out that the rules are not strictly enforced, we lose momentum.
That’s why I’m certain that I’d study attentively in the first at least two months but am unsure about my performance from then on. There might be so many factors that make me lose the inertia and care less about my grades.
32`Indeed, on this second day of orientation, participation has fallen and some people are taking the lectures less and less seriously. (The same thing also happened throughout my ACT writing sessions.)
But I attend them because it’s important to get familiar with the various resources on campus. It’s difficult to remember so many people, but I am trying using the same method as the GR3 Mode for word reciting.
31`Added on 170819: Recently I hanged out much with various groups of people: Target with NFLS friends on 8/15, a Korean restaurant and Walmart on 8/18 with many Beijing guys, and Opry Mills on 8/19 with 3 girls to watch Dunkirk on the huge IMAX screen (since 8/15 I’ve been trying not to stay with NFLSers and so is 120). I also meet with my iLead and Visions group.
13`I am typically busy and also growing rapidly. Much of the growth happen subtly in the form of "thoughts that cross my mind": they only form kind of implicit memory and I can’t remember and record them clearly but they still shape my mindset in a good way, a conclusion I got when researching learning how to learn.
32`But there’s one thing I have to record because I and people around me have repeatedly been bothered by these kinds of pitfalls. About Life. Today at noon I wasted $11 on lunch but still didn’t get my stomach full, and at Subway I desperately didn’t know how to order and lost another $8.
Thanks to my experiences as a ACT tutor (which has become an important part of my profile) I now cherish money more than ever. Also when going on trips, my peers frequently face cancelled Uber orders and lose $5.
31`Until yesterday I’ve been sleeping between 9 PM and 4 AM. Today is the domestic student move-in day. Two Room-429 guys knocked on my door and said hi to me friendly, and Americans are generally more open and straightforward than us (BTW I heard from a Japanese guy that Japanese are much more conservative than even Chinese), although in terms of personality people around the world are actually quite similar.
23`I’ve been dissatisfied with my What’s Up for a while. On 8/20 I changed my What’s Up to "The progression of history is independent of men’s will". This sentence is expected to become my motto and it has multiple layers of meanings.
First, I should calm down whatever happens and let everything happen naturally.
Second, the progression of an event is often determined by some innate factors, and although random events can change the speed of progression, the result is destined and will come sooner or later, regardless of any random events. This is especially manifest in love experiences, as the personalities of two people always determine the consequence of the love.
Third, it shows that I’m interested in history and love to use historical perspectives to examine things, especially my personal life paths.
