D5P74-170821
32`Today we viewed the solar eclipse, which was amazing. Now a week has passed since we started our life at Vandy. These seven days are one of the fullest in my life. But I don’t know whether I should record my thoughts or just let growth come implicitly. Everything is a new challenge, and I’m busy developing new systems for self-adjustment for college. There are so many things that are covered these days that I don’t know where to start with.
31`I deleted Vocab, Ksong, Alipay, etc. to make space for the new apps. By now I’ve known about 25 Chinese 2021ers outside of NFLS, which means there are still about 35 I haven’t met. I’m trying to get to know my iLead group members, 17 other Visions group members, 17 civil engineering classmates (9 boys, 9 girls, me included), 60+ floor mates, etc. At first I didn’t pay much attention remembering people’s names, but many of them remember mine... so I began to try today.
24`Difficulties in social life are present. I often can’t understand what others say when they talk about their fun facts, and the biggest problem is expression.
It’s strange but even when I’ve been writing diaries in English at least 50 thousand words and been an ACT writing tutor, I often can’t talk as fluently and easily as natives. Writing and speaking are very different. The words that I easily use when writing just fail to come up when I speak.
When speaking, you have to respond quickly and physically to external situations, and the words you use and things you talk about are so different from if you write. (BTW I’m also curious about how differently we use English and Chinese in conversations.)
Americans are more polite and respectful and inclined to compliment others, and they say sorry and excuse me much more often, while Chinese typically don’t have this kind of awareness.
24`When meeting new people, we typically ask about each other’s names, hometowns, majors, courses, dorms. By now I’m less able to learn anything new because I’ve already got answers to things I’m most concerned about.
 It’s strange but we don’t talk about our hobbies or the things that are deeper, or more characteristic about ourselves; just some basic profile information.
24`However, although I am disinclined to get social, it’d still be overwhelming and unsupported to be in the huge crowd of foreigners if I don’t know a lot of people. It’d be awkward if you don’t know your floor mates or if you come back alone with no one by your side.
24`Sometimes I wonder if this first few weeks are the golden time for socializing. After the semester begins there will also be many opportunities to meet new people and by then the people we meet will really have shared tasks or hobbies so that we get closer, and I won’t have to waste time on people who are intrinsically different from me.
23`As to Diary, it’s really a nice place for me to not only record the things for future reference, but organize my thoughts and reflect on my day. So although I can’t publicize it for social benefits, which sometimes makes me question whether writing diary is worthwhile in the busy environment, I will still keep this habit.
Also, if I publicize it, I wouldn’t write so casually, which it should be. Maybe in future I can talk about it on social media as posts and gain popularity and senses of achievements. Well, will I have free time to review all this in future? Hopefully…
31`On 8/22 noon we watched a presentation called True Life, presented by a dozen Vuceptors. Like Haven, the online modules about sexual assault and alcohol, the show exhibits real world stories about campus life and tell us that these are normal and even surely to happen, we are not alone, and we have to face these problems and solve them by utilizing the various resources such as PCC.
Topics includes: cannot understand American culture and blend in; too much peer pressure and feeling inferior; trying to stay athletic and lose weight but get ill; political correctness and micro aggression; taking stimulative drugs to focus more on studies but backfired; raping; discipline violations; depression and suicide; LGBT and identity; etc.
23`From this show I learn that we aren’t perfect and all have problems, but most of the time we live under illusions because people seldom show their problems to others. Our Visions group later held discussions about it and people were all pretty active (except the person whose comment was "want to go home lol").
32`On 8/22 at 7 PM, all of a sudden, the sky turns dark, there was lightning and thunder, and rain started pouring down with heavy winds. This is something I’ve never seen before!! The weather is so extreme here... And the forecast didn’t show that!
14`After so many days of orientation, when I get back to my dorm and begin reading on Zhidao for an hour, I suddenly experienced a familiar sense of tranquility, achievement, and confidence again. I think this really the state of mind that I enjoy.
I think that others are not as talented as they seem to be and are even so disqualified, and if I have the chance, I’ll outdo them all. I’m in love with studies like hardly anyone else. People who attend extracurriculars? ECs are good, but if I first expand knowledge, high-level activities will come naturally.
24`I think of changing my What’s Up to "非淡泊无以明志 非宁静无以致远" so show that only in a completely quiet space can I achieve my fullest potential.
In this week so much of my time is wasted on the many people around me: saying hi, being distracted by what they do, trying to remember everyone’s names and identities and to stay connected to them.
During these days, in hardly any ways can my knowledge be useful because the people only talk about some basic profile things or things that I’m not familiar with at all, and therefore I feel empty and painful often.
You never know what true talents and personality they have in these brief talks. Those you don’t like on first glance might have some great talents hidden while those who have so many friends won’t necessarily end up well in the workforce.
I’d love to know the person who got 57 AP credits or the 25 people who achieved 36 on ACT in the School of Eng, but of course I can’t ask.
24`Is social life really necessary now? As always, keep in mind my essential goal: learn. Be confident about my future and know that no one change my core self. So I think I will need no deliberate social life. I won’t say hi to people unless I know them or they say hi to me, and I’ll just sit alone in dining halls if there’s no one I know. If I need to respond to a cultural joke I don’t know about, I’ll just reply that I’m not interested.
14`Added on the night of 170822: Tomorrow is the first day of school in college. Such a big day! But I don’t quite feel about it because it’s just a natural thing. I say to my family that all they have to do is trust me because I can find literally any resource I need on campus.
11`I’ve just finished commenting on the ACT essays and earned ¥600 with about 4 hours’ work, which is already 2 times a higher pay than on-campus jobs (and I’m also treated very well, with Vicky always being polite and thankful to me), whereas my roommate 133 is playing computer games while talking with his playmate.
13`The ACT tutor experience really offered me some insights about what it’s like to be a professor, and the spirit of 287 is becoming a part of me, although I know that in the long term, I should not force myself to be active but let things happen naturally as my knowledge improves, which will cause me to have more deep questions to ask.
