D5P75-170823
34`Today is the first day of college life! In the morning I didn’t sleep well and was half awake and dreaming lucidly since before 6 AM probably because of the excitement, but this doesn’t matter since I slept very well (even excessively) on the previous days.
Because I have to eat lunch as early as 11 AM, I need to have breakfast as early as possible, otherwise I won’t be able to eat sufficiently for lunch. That’s why I think of getting up at 6:30 every day, and another reason is to avoid the bath rush and breakfast rush in the morning. (Or maybe I can try out eating lunch after 2 PM? I’ll consider this...)
14`Driven by the motivation from such a high tuition, I was desperate to take advantage of all the opportunities that are offered. However, sometimes I am overcome with the pressure and anxiety to make up for the cost, whereas at other times the thought of the high tuition cannot stimulate me.
11`I arrived early on the General Psychology Class and sat in the middle of the 3rd row, and that was a right decision! After a while, people poured in and the best seats were soon occupied.
A white girl walked to the professor and introduced herself, but the prof was busy setting up the computer and didn’t notice her. Alas, how will I be able to reach out to the prof given there’s 300 people in this course?
979 sat 2 seats away from me and honestly, this helped eliminate some distractions (this reminds me of how sitting in front of, instead of behind, 457 in Grade 11 helped me stay more focused).
It’s clear that some students have already developed mature techniques for note-taking in class (half take notes on laptop and half books), and I am so glad that I’m surrounded by so many xuebas here! I tried out the Notebook tool of my Microsoft system today, but I still frequently type things wrong :(
11`The second course that immediately followed was a CS course. When I arrived the lecture hall was already pretty full so I had to sit in the back.
The Indian guy in front of me browsed FB in class, which was distracting; I also had difficulties hearing the prof because he’s too far from me and it’s tiring just to decipher what he says and stay focused. Ugh.
On this introductory lesson, I learned that in CS there is so much space for innovation and we should forget the stereotype that programmers’ jobs are only writing codes in front of the computer and they are all nerds... The prof also talks about how promising this major is for future employment, and man, it’s such an enticement!
21`But after a brief introduction of CE given by the coming ES1400 course, I still believe that civil engineering is where I belong—multidisciplinary, a broad range of fields and knowledge covered, new cities, and maybe there’s less people taking this course so I have less competition for chances compared to CS?
11`The teacher here seem much more inexperienced because she stumbled a lot and doesn’t know what to say, whereas the three other profs today are eloquent and even quite humorous. The last course was Premodern Chinese history, and more than 1/3 of the students here are Chinese. The requirements for this course seem low and the prof is very "unstrict"...
12`As expected, there isn’t much to do after first day of class, so in the afternoon I continued to read on economics, the coming crisis in the US (even Wall Street warned of this today! How I admire you, Awing!), and got some sleep. When my books arrive I believe there will be more work to do especially with CS and Maths.
32`Added on 170824: Today I bought a poster for Victoria Harbor to decorate my dorm. Although we had tons of opportunities to ask questions about campus life, I still have many confusions and unproficiencies upon arrival. Some questions will never appear until I really experience them; some worries never come true.
So I kind of regret trying to figure out how to succeed in college and struggling to come up with questions to ask our upperclassmen in Grade 12. The best thing to do at the time was to learn more concrete knowledge, and I’m glad that I did learn some.
11`By now I still can’t navigate thru the complex network of online education websites, which are very different from the teaching mechanisms back in NFlS. Those online studying systems are a great improvement compared to traditional methods, though. Especially the interactive e-book of CS and psy.
13`I am also trying to find the best studying spot; SparkNote says that I should study at different places to improve memory, and insiderVU provides some favorable study spots.
11`Tonight when writing the assignment for my ES1401 course, which asks us to write about 2 of 14 “Grand Challenges” of engineering and how we’re gonna solve them, I picked aging infrastructure and advance personalized learning. I wrote:
<em>
“I think it’s not only necessary to develop a system that creatively presents knowledge and design the learning process so that the student can engage and immerse in it, but it’s also imperative that students have good mental and physical conditions in the first place. An effective learning system should also consider: how to make students find a perfect sleep cycle that work out best for themselves? How to let students find balance between studying and other activities so that they can maximize studying efficiency while become a more well-rounded person on all aspects? These are all things that I would consider in designing the advanced learning system.”
</em>
13`I was suddenly inspired by what I write. Indeed, this will be a more comprehensive design and it focuses on the whole picture and more reasons that underlie the students’ academic performance.
Utilizing my research on my academic history as well as programming skills, and with the latest research on memory in psychology, I might be able to make a big difference! That’s so exciting!
21`Maybe this will become a turning point of my life, or maybe it’ll be only one more mistake I make on the road of exploring what I truly want. As I said, I have interest in a rapidly evolving array of subjects now.
21`But although I love social sciences, I’m never going to make them the focus of my career, only essential knowledge that can equip me with a wider outlook (when reading about the future of science tonight, my politics knowledge already comes into play).
Because nothing in social sciences can be “proved” and it’s hard to develop an acceptable theory, but natural sciences are different: you can prove your research results. I am determined, as of now, to be a leading expert in scientific research in the future.
