D5P76-170826
31`Yesterday we watched Spotlight, Vandy’s performing arts showcase. The shows were brilliant and exciting, and the audience was exceptionally enthusiastic, engaging, and respectful, not seen anywhere in China.
However, I can’t understand much of the American cultural elements; especially when people are using language, I frequently can’t understand a thing.
24`My Chinese peers expressed the same concern. Similar things have happened in group discussions in some classes: the members are talking so fast and I can’t follow up and I can’t engage at all and it’s so frustrating. Why can I write so easily but speak so difficultly?
As I mentioned, first, the words that are used are different; second, the parts of the brain and the physical movement required is different; third, when writing I can rearrange words, but when speaking I have to come up with a complete sentence immediately…
13`Now I want to discuss my study efficiency. The principle here is to let every good habit become a part of me: immersion is the best driving force.
Today my textbooks have just arrived, and I am expected to gradually achieve immersion. Hopefully my textbooks are well-organized so that it increases my study efficiency.
Studying materials are important. I’ve explored this multiple times: just compare Wiki with Zhidao, or Barron’s with our high school textbooks.
13`On study spot. Studying in the dorm is convenient, but the presence of the bed can make me lazier, my roommate 133 often plays video games (although he also studies), and the boy who lives next door often invites guests so it can be noisy sometimes.
The common room of the dorm is where Americans socialize: although people bring study materials there, what they mostly do is actually chatting, so it makes that place noisy too.
13`If the dorm is not satisfactory, where can I find a perfect environment? When I’m having difficulties immersing into what I’m studying, then some exterior stimulation is preferred, and I can find a place where people around me are all studying.
Such a place is not hard to find, since so many students are already very hardworking even in this first weekend of school (although if they’re not hardworking, they may just stay in their dorms or somewhere else so I won’t see them…).
13`If there’s no need for exterior stimuli, I can try out the central library’s personal study spots. The good thing about studying outside dorm is that it might give me greater sense of urgency and time limit; it can also increase body exercise and reduce dullness.
However, there are also more distractions, and I have to make sure I brought all materials needed with me, which I sometimes can’t.
13`Utilizing “dark time”. Originally I had wanted to listen to my recordings of lectures during my walks between classes and dorm, but my recordings are often blurred and the walking time is actually shorter than I thought.
However, I might try out listening to Khan Academy about some extracurricular contents (such as world history or finance) when exercising? I’ve also considered using my phone to study during meals.
34`On sleep. Because my sleep quality has declined in the past year of home stretch (and I know this can’t be reversed in a short time), now I have to sleep more than I did in Grade 11.
I slept avg. 7 hours in the 3 school days, and the quality was low since I dreamt every day. I felt very sleepy on 8/25 afternoon so I slept 3 hours and missed the Org Fair. I slept another 7 hours this morning and dreamt lucidly (it’s strange but I dreamt of my parents for two consecutive days…[Note on 8/29: 4 days now]).
How will I adjust myself in the following days? Try out more exercise? Force myself to control sleeping for some time? Oh, I really need more historical data…
31`At night we traveled to the State of the Art show, where there were many DIY opportunities, and I finished an art work that shows my love of my hometown and homeland. Beyond midnight, we played a low-level wolfers game. How I miss the games back in Class 2!
