D5P77-170828
43`Today in traditional Chinese calendar is July 7th, the Valentine’s Day. Coincidentally, the number of this diary is also 77. Unfortunately, I don’t yet have a lover now.
The principle I discussed in D5P65, I have been implementing it in college life now: don’t make clear a relationship unless trust has been built up. (BTW: The lack of interaction through WeChat Moments also lessens the chance for me to find a lover, but that won’t be a big deal.)
I also discussed that I and my (potential) lover should not attend the same classes together in order to eliminate powerful, addictive mental distractions.
43`Given that college life is busy, my ideal relationship would be that we just exercise together, hug each other when meet in the roads, relax together and explore the world at weekends and during vacations, share helpful opportunities, and discuss academic matters together. We don’t even need to sit together when eating because that’d be a golden time for meeting new people or studying.
I furthermore expect that the girl be a xueba from upper class because in this way she would be able to teach me advanced knowledge (although this is not very realistic…).
These discussions are all based on the assumption that college romance should still serve my ultimate goal—becoming a person with very strong multidisciplinary academic background.
34`Today, to combat my increasing drowsiness and irregular sleep cycle, I avoided daytime sleeps and tried out the rec center and ran and rode there for 1+ hours (my legs were almost numb at the end).
My goal is to get back to the “optimal state” for studying manifested in the ACT Prep Mode of late Apr 2016. Then, I rode 28 km (2 hrs) on a daily commute to my mother’s office, and because of inertia brought by chronic 7-hr daily sleep during school days, my sleep quality was still quite high.
My exercise strength in Aug 2016 seems too small. Given the situation right now (discussed in previous Diary), I might need up to several weeks of endeavor to achieve the state of Apr 2016.
34`Given my goal of studying 9 hrs a day, I’d have 7 hrs to spare, and spending about 1.5 hours of them on exercising is a great idea. As I said, I can watch Khan Academy when running on the treadmill, etc.
Maybe on TRSS I can exercise 0.5 h at Comments in morning and 1 h at Rec in afternoon. I wouldn’t need to exercise on MWF. Now I’m still in the process of exploring a best routine…
34`Hopefully such plans will become a good habit of me. The benefits of such exercises are just so manifest: improve mood and excitement level, improve eating habits, improve sleep and thus focus, improve body strength, utilize tuition… maybe I’ll learn more about the benefits in psy class lol.
32`In the past weekend we also attended an alcohol and a sexual violence course. The fact that the school reiterates these issues so many times demonstrates how serious the problem is in the US, even in such a prestigious school full of elites. This is not seen in China. So Americans’ open personality has both pros and cons!
