D5P78-170829
34`On 8/29 I opened a bank account. By 8/29 my sleep quality is still unimproved and I’m still unable to concentrate in the afternoon. I tried lying on bed for 10 min, but then it takes only a short time before sleepiness arouse again.
Then I tried drinking RedBull to stimulate myself for the first time in life, and but to little avail; to find out its effects, I may need to collect more historical data.
Historically, I have consumed coffee only during Zhongkao Prep, but it actually had little effects on my sleep and level of excitement. (PS: That night I couldn’t fall asleep until 2 AM, and I attributed this to RedBull.)
34`Another potential benefit of drinking energy drinks is on attitude, as they may give me a sense of urgency: “The effect of the drink is going to dissipate in several hours, so I have to utilize this time to study more!”
34`It was not until I slept for 45 minutes in late afternoon that I regained some focus. After that I was pretty anxious because my learning efficiency was extremely low in the afternoon, but I tried to control my emotions because I knew the devastating effects of anxiety attacks. I actively recalled the situations on the 12/12, the 2/19, the May Prep, 9/6/2016.
34`On 8/30 night I tried out working out at about 11 PM at Commons for 30 minutes and then have a bath, because having bath 1 hr before sleep can bolster sleep quality, and bathing at night instead of morning might be better (now I bath in morning).
While running I watched Khan Academy on multivariable calculus on my iPhone, but my hand hit my earphone wire and my phone fell off the treadmill, and I tried to pick up the phone but fell off the rapidly-moving treadmill and scratched my right leg.
This reminds me of how dangerous those equipment can be if care is not taken, and I’m reconsidering watching videos when running… Sad.
31`On 9/1 night I attended a dumpling feast and sang Viva La Vida after Vincent prompted me to do so, and joined VUCA (the only club I joined as of now); on 9/2 I attended interNASHional, sampled food from many countries, and talked with an Persian guy; on 9/2 night I, 9 other NFLS 2021ers, yzn, and 7 NFLS 2020ers went to a Chinese restaurant; on 9/3 noon I attended VUCSSA’s activity of “BBQ”.
31`This weekend is full of various activities, but this is what makes me empty except meeting a few new friends and gaining some information from others.
For example: 1st year residence is really favorable compared to upperclassmen’s; they used to play wolfers from 0 to 4 AM at weekends just to have fun; in Iran people are pro-Western and they blame government for being anti-Western; there are actually many foreigners interested in Chinese culture, though many students in my History class are Chinese…
14`Although after these events my “sense of urgency to study” strengthened (this reminds me of Zhongkao Prep’s “Least motivated on Friday, regain impetus after playing at weekends”), when I actually begin to study, I had a more difficult time trying to re-immerse into it.
Alas, should I really turn down these activities in the future? And just stay in the library alone at weekends? As I said, gaining extra friends doesn’t seem to be very useful now.
34`By now I’m still struggling with a better sleep cycle. Sleeping excessively will make me sleepy (if I wake up during “REM” then sleepy in afternoon, if I wake up during deep sleep then sleepy in morning), and so is insufficient sleeping.
I now keep track of my sleeping time to make better decisions on how much I should sleep in a particular day, based on the sleeping conditions on previous days.
13`I also want to keep track of my studying time, but the problem is that it is pretty hard to define. Sometimes I am looking at the material but I ain’t learning a thing; yet sometimes I am so immersed that after a period of studying ends, I am still thinking actively about the knowledge.
11`Added on 9/5: Today I attended an interesting psychology experiment, and at the Visions Meeting on 9/4 we attended an activity called “Claim Common Ground”, which are interesting.
34`Since recovery from the scratch by the treadmill, from 9/3 on I’ve gradually begun to keep the daily exercise, sometimes in Commons, where I run while watching Maths on Khan Academy, and sometimes at the Rec, where I ride on a fancy bicycle-stimulator machine.
34`By now the benefits of recording my sleep time has emerged. By evaluating my sleep hours on previous days, I can determine whether my sleep at one day is enough.
If not, then I will go to sleep when I’m really sleepy in the day, like I did in much of last week. If it is enough, then I’ll lay on the desk for some time at most.
24`My social life has progressed slowly because I really have nothing valuable to talk about with others. I don’t like walking with someone else because I like walking fast and even running, and I don’t even force myself to socialize during meals but instead watch Khan Academy (although my efficiency of watching it declined due to increased numbness).
But studying together might be a good idea from time to time, and so is working out together at the Rec. I’ll try to adjust in the upcoming days.
11`The course load seems lower than I expected, although many Americans complain about lack of sleep and too much homework. I have almost 4 whole days every week in which I can study for more than 10 hours, and adding the 7 hours on MWF, it turns out to be so much that I don’t seem to know how to deal with the extra time. After all, ES and HIST are both under-100-hr courses, and others combined require at most 25 hours per week.
