D5P79-170909
<h2>Summary of my study methods</h2>
[h3]【1】Before semester starts:
I read many books and articles about history or current events. The characteristics of this kind of learning:
(1) no pressure; no direct testing or feedback; (2) repeated (sometimes slow) reading of one text over a long time; (3) involvement of emotions when reading (Awing’s writings); (4) readers’ feedbacks of those writings; (5) watching TV series (Three Kingdoms), discussing it with family, and being able to recite many dialogues.
[h3]【2】Attitude:
I’ve always been thinking about how my attitudes towards studies evolved over time.
I’ve been quite conscientious since I was young, and although my attitude deteriorated rapidly in 2013 Fall, the 1/7 Incident served as a wake-up call to me, and under pressure from Zhongkao, my due attitudes were restored by May 2014.
After several years of treating my homework fairly conscientiously, especially since Grade 11, the good attitude has become an entrenched habit of me that can hardly be changed anymore.
In order to prevent exterior factors that might erode this good attitude over time, I do not hang out with friends who are disinclined to studying, have not sought access to the solution manual of Maths homework, and have strictly controlled the use of social media.
As of now, I’ve been mostly in the ideal state of “let studying become a natural part of me.” My attitude has been satisfactory in the first 3 weeks of college life.
[h3]【3】Atmosphere:
In general, the “atmosphere”—how people around me treat studies—can no longer impact my attitudes now because my driving force is largely from within.
My roommate plays video games frequently, but as long as he doesn’t make any sound, I am not affected in any way.
However, if I am to have a girlfriend in the future, her attitudes on studies will have a crucial influence on me, so I must be cautious and observe before making clear the relationship.
The people around me are generally kind, and although their studying efficiency is not necessarily high, most of the people are pretty serious about their studies and there is never an anti-intellectual atmosphere.
I will gather more data about my peers’ level after more tests, especially Math and CS, have taken place. Attendance in class has declined pretty obviously since school started.
[h3]【4】Motivation:
Because I generally learn materials in advance and don’t pay much attention to the deadlines when studying, I am generally driven only by inertia.
My efficiency is sometimes high and sometimes low. However, I know that this is completely normal and high efficiency cannot be achieved in one day.
For much of the time when I first began reading current affairs, I couldn’t understand a thing. Things gradually improved over the months, and now the conditions for the state of GR3 for reading about history has been achieved.
So, after I overcome an initial stage, knowledge will integrate at a faster pace and a virtuous cycle will be established.
[h3]【5】General Methods:
I do not set up any plans for my studies beyond some vague plans for the 3-hr study period ahead.
I typically devote a consecutive 2~4 hours to a single subject in a session; in the first hour my mind might drift away frequently, but by the second hour I’m generally immersed in the material.
By the third hour I might become tired and new information might not register as effectively, so the study session ends.
[h3]【6】CS 1101 - Programming:
I sometimes use the mobile app SoloLearn, which I can use during meals to learn, which has forums in which people comment about knowledge, and which provides multiplayer contests.
The experience of ACT tutor has shaped my study habits in many ways: the way I treat professors, the spirit of trying to comprehend things from the point of view of the teacher/textbook writer, the similarities between writing an ACT essay and programming.
[h3]【7】Maths 2300 - Multivariable Calculus:
Since reading that the best way to study Maths is not looking back at the material when encountering difficulties in homework but instead comprehend the concepts thoroughly before finishing practices, I have tried to do so, even if that can take up to several hours.
I typically study at the library and will think about the contents I studied on my way back. Because learning Maths is tiring, I need to study it when in good condition and try doing non-academic things (fitness ctr, housework, sleep) after a session ends.
I typically spend 6~8 hours on homework every week. I now plan to consider a challenging problem before going to sleep or bath every day in the hope of occupying the dark time and even solve problems when dreaming.
I also plan to preview the material before each lecture so that I can listen with questions and understand more.
[h3]【8】Psychology 1600 - Gen Psy:
We are required to finish reading the material and complete the interactive activities online before the lecture covers the concepts. Those online activities are very engaging and effective.
