D5P80-170912
31`Written on 170907: Today I tried out Cohen Memorial (house for courses for art history, etc.) to study for the first time, and the environment of that spot is so perfect and comfortable.
 The house is beautifully decorated: there were sculptures, paintings, and skylights (windows through which I can see the sky). Most importantly, there weren’t a single person!! Tonight when I lay on the sofa in a study break I feel like I’m the happiest person in the world lol.
31`Added on 170910: Overview for the weekend: On 9/8 I attended the wolfers game organized by VUCSSA. Compared to previous games, the level of these games were so high that I couldn’t handle.
I pretended to be villagers and had good speeches in two games where I was wolf, but both times failed. The upperclassmen are so good at this game. On 9/9 I attended the Anchor Dash and studied at Cohen and Commons at night.
11`I am supposed to spend 10+ hours on learning on 9/10, because I was far behind my goal of 9 hours of studying per day. I spent 2 hours in the morning learning CS and 3 hours in the afternoon on the painstaking Maths.
Then, I still had a section of Maths homework, a psychology paper, and a history paper to finish. I am also lagging behind in the Reges reading of CS (although well ahead in Zybooks homework) and readings of Chinese history. These might take 15 hours in total to finish.
13`The course load has begun to become heavier now. Although sometimes I can achieve full efficiency when studying, there are still some problems that prevent myself from achieving the state of ACT Prep.
I spend too much time on meals, and I’m also low efficient in the mornings (I get up too early on weekdays and cannot utilize the time before 10 AM at weekends).
Time can pass much more quickly than I expect. 133 also sometimes plays video games in dorm, which is a big distraction for me. Luckily, I have eliminated social media as a major distraction source.
13`From next week on I probably will really turn down activities during weekends and spend all day in a quiet, individual space.
I will also run during class intervals to save up to 1 hour per week and bolster body strength in the meantime. I will also get up at 8.5 on MWF and 9 (or else 7.5) on TR, because my bath time has shifted to evenings now.
13`Of course, my classmates are not better than I am in studying. Many Americans are truly low-efficient, chatting endlessly while studying and not doing homework until Sunday night; my Chinese counterparts are also less conscientious than me generally.
I always wonder the veracity of the passages on WeChat that report people sleeping less than 6 hours every day in intense majors. I slept an average of 7.7 hours in the past two weeks, and will feel unable to concentrate once I don’t get enough sleep.
Indeed, true xuebas will not stay up late. Countless truths have revealed that almost none of the passages regarding college life and career prospects written by my peers are deep and reflect the true situation or provide information valuable for a first-year.
32`On 9/11 the campus was filled with American flags to commemorate the attacks 16 yrs ago. I mysteriously lost my Commodore Card that morning, which made it very inconvenient for me in the rest of the day.
A Chinese boy helped me out at lunch, and at dinner, when I was unable to pay again, an American girl used her flex meal to help me, and I was very moved and grateful.
11`On 9/11 afternoon, our Visions group met, and as always, I gained a lot of insights into life at our meeting.
This time, we are asked to draw how we distribute our time daily, and I drew 7.5 hrs of sleep and 8~9 hrs of studying, while others spend less time on sleep and studying and more time on activities or “freaking out about studying”.
A girl asked me how I managed to get 7.5 hrs of sleep curiously, and I replied that I study almost all by myself, while Americans like to chat together when they’re supposed to study.
24`This bolstered my confidence, as I’ve been bothered by social life with Americans recently and now I realize that if I do well in studies, they will come to admire me naturally. Another thing that bolstered me is VU’s rise of ranking to the 14th in national universities.
34`I napped 2 hours at night, and because the nap was too late, my sleep quality was very bad in the night, waking up multiple times, making my subsequent day pretty tired and low-efficient.
I also dreamed of the release and inhibition of hormones during sleep, a knowledge point I read about the night before, which reaffirmed the fact that we turn knowledge into long-term memories in sleep.
11`Today I went to the office hour for the first time, and the talk lasted less than 10 minutes because another girl was waiting. I asked the Maths prof about the techniques of integration, which I’ve forgotten by now.
43`Added on 170914: Recently some of my peers have already formed CPs (couples), or potential ones, studying together and hanging out together.
This speed is far quicker than I expected, but I will keep the previous strategy of wait and observe until fully knowing the potential girls. Relationships that form too fast might not last long, and after the breakup there might be serious side-effects.
24`Added on 170917: On 9/16 night 876 invited me and Richard to dinner. He told us a lot about his endeavors to help those struggling with college life, and said that it’s not just international students who have problems blending in.
Richard, the boy from Mumbai, has remembered the city I’m from and the house I live in. He later told me that he understands the problems when people first arrive at the US, and if I want someone to talk with I can text him anytime. I was almost moved to tears. I plan to audit the World War II History class on MW at noons.
31`Later 876 invited me to a party at BYX. He is friends with so many people there despite his awkward accent, which gives me some confidence about blending in.
For now I still want to focus on studies (especially the difficult Maths; I’m thinking about giving up the various integration techniques and only understanding the concepts learned recently), but if in future I have some social needs, 876 would be a fantastic resource.
21`At 9/17 night we attended 355’s birthday party, playing Guandan together. Later we played a game called “what I’ve never done”, which is a dramatic intimacy booster. We started talking about “private” things and ACG, which I’m not familiar with at all.
24`I felt strange that I didn’t know the topics they’re describing, and felt intimate with 139, who seems to be the only one like me. 133 said that it’s just as well that he doesn’t talk about these things with me, or my grades would go down again. Although I feel an urge to join 545 to start doing these hobbies, I am immediately aware of the consequences of being exposed to these topics.
31`Added on 170918: Today our Visions group topic is about failure, and as always, I feel more supported than ever in this group of people. This week is the first wave of mid-term exams, so a lot of people talked about their intense struggles with academics. People also talked about failure in applying for programs, house presidents, and fraternities, which I’ve never thought of trying...
