D5P81-170921
11`On 9/20 our Civil group finished our presentation at the class, and it was quite a success: we scored 57 out of 60 points. The day before we spent some time preparing; when discussing matters, I couldn’t join their conversations much because I basically couldn’t understand much.
Jack has impressed me with his revision of my writing and his use of computers to write Maths homework. Chris is in the school football team. The course did give me a lot of hands-on experience with civil engineering, although the professor is the worst among my 5 courses as of now.
21`On 9/20 afternoon I looked around in the Career Fair; at night 139 came to our room and applied for internships at multiple companies with 133. This gave me some ideas about what companies look for (foreign languages spoken are also required info?!).
Indeed, programmers are in high demand now: many positions require the student to be a CS or Math major. How can this not be an enticement for me?
34`On 9/21 night I experienced some nausea, ostensibly due to the meal being too cold. How will I be able to make it through the winter? That is a question.
How I miss the food in China! BTW, I have become manifestly fatter. I’m also having a little trouble with my hearing because of too much earphone usage.
13`Recently I’ve mainly utilized the “dark time” to think about the contents I read from Zhidao, Awing, and CKS. I am gradually equipped with the ability to think critically about their viewpoints about current affairs and modern Chinese history, and my own worldview is also forming in this thinking that takes place “at the back of my head”.
This is what Zhihu’s LightWing described of his own mindset: his mind is always actively thinking about things, which is what makes him so clever.
24`Added on 170923: On 9/23 noon I ate lunch with 496, a xuejie from NFLS, intending to ask about how she coped with the Chinese History exams. The course load appears heavier than I thought, as we need to know how to write 5-paragraph essays on 12 topics.
The previous casual reading that aims just to enhance my spiritual level doesn’t seem effective now; to cope with the test I’ll have to be more focused on discrete knowledge points, reading the texts purposefully.
24`As the conversation moved on, we discussed our opinions on NFLS vs VU and the present situation of her Chinese peers.
I view my NFLS peers negatively because during college application, they never shared any info or opportunities with me, and always claim they don’t involve in activities or contests, to the point of deception.
24`I felt stressful when she told me that the avg GPA of NFLSers is 3.95, but she reassures me that it’s not that hard as long as I keep my momentum.
“Chinese and Americans treat their lives quite differently. We tend to think about the future while they typically just care about enjoying the present. That’s what makes Chinese so smart.”
496 says that taking the 2500 Math sequence has helped her significantly in preparing for the Math major; alas, I am too late to regret choosing the 2300 sequence.
496 advised me to go to summer school of UCB and to change my major to CS and Maths early because I’ll find that most Chinese people will have done this by their junior year.
21`Indeed, I’m seriously considering this issue with my major. I’ve found myself more and more interested in CS now. I’ve always completed my CS homework ahead of time; last week after I solved the CS HW problems (9 days ahead of ddl), I felt so achieved that I frequently thought about the program I wrote whenever my mind was wandering.
I know this is the indication of a great sense of self-achievement and growing interest. I feel that I’ve begun to fall in love with creating and manipulating programs, just in the way I once loved making new maps of Ballance. There is so much room for creativity.
11`(I’m also learning so much about life, love, child-rearing, personality, health, etc. from the psychology class; I regard it as the most useful class this semester!)
11`The afternoon spent on reviewing Chinese history was one of the most productive since school, because I was constantly synthesizing information and writing them down in my own words under predesigned topics in a word document.
I’m not reading casually, often distracted, without taking notes and frequent recalling. Computer is such a great resource; utilize it to make convenient my studying!
32`At night I lost my Commodore Card again, at Commons dining hall, but this time I was quick to realize and someone picked it up.
34`At night, nausea struck me once again due to improper food and sleepiness, but I soon recovered. I then finished a satisfactory ACT sample essay.
