D5P82-170927
11`With the coming of mid-term exams, I spent the weekend fairly productively reviewing Maths and history. I took a completely new approach for Math: go over the concepts in my mind frequently whenever I’m free (esp. when I lie on the bed but can’t sleep at night), instead of just using the study time to learn.
13`Thanks to my very good attitudes when doing HW problems, I don’t need much time to review. Magically, my memory of maths formulas and HW problems are improving rapidly, and my “sense” for derivatives is also improving quickly in extensive practice.
13`My ultimate striving goal for Maths: Not only understand the principles and theorems and familiarize myself with various types of questions, but also to deeply comprehend the connections between them, so that I can memorize things more easily.
When I’m learning Maths, I can automatically immerse for hours and gain great sense of achievement, and after a study session ends the knowledge will still echo in my mind for some time.
While learning, I’m not only trying to understand the concepts, but also thinking about the connection between what I’m reading to a larger hierarchical structure or other related knowledge, and actively organizing information. Whenever I’m free, I’ll ponder on the connection between Maths concepts and derive happiness from it.
11`On 9/25’s first chemical and biomedical engineering module class, the professor stressed the multidisciplinary, systematic nature of ChBE, and encouraged us to utilize LinkedIn as a great networking resource because of the importance of networking.
Among 27 students, only one person raised his hand when asked whether we use LinkedIn. I later reflected on my social policy: how to make my interpersonal relationships more effective and efficient.
24`As of now, I really don’t want to be distracted by social media. As I always said, once I open the Pandora Box, my momentum in studies will be significantly weakened by interference from peers, particularly my vanity and interactions with peers.
Due to historical reasons, my entrenched tendency to prove myself, gain recognition and opportunities, and outdo others in the circle of my NFlS counterparts is still affecting my thoughts now; in contrast, I view my new friends at Vandy much more rationally.
11`On the exam of 9/26, I failed to use two formulas of Chapter 12, which I only reviewed several days ago, which might cause a loss of 9 points. One of them was not mentioned in the Review sheet, so I barely missed reviewing that but instead spent much time on other things which were not actually tested.
After realizing the loss of so many points, I was so mad that I was tempted to throw my Maths textbook against the wall. Compounded with the intense pressure from the two tests tomorrow and my poor body condition, an anxiety attack almost broke out.
14`Aware that I’ve really been putting too much pressure and expectations on myself recently, I immediately began to adjust my attitude by reassuring myself that I am just a very ordinary person and that I should desire nothing but a happy, fulfilled life and a harmonious family (my growing emphasis on family owes thanks to my separation from my own family which made me realize its preciousness, and the influence of recent psychology class).
I felt much relieved after this adjustment, and spent the afternoon reading various texts on pre-Han China, just for the purpose of expanding worldview and disregarding whether the contents I read will be tested. A turn from the GR3 mindset to that of GR2, huh?
13`9/26 proved to be the most productive day since college life: I studied 15 hours, twice more than the average day and almost twice as much efficient. I also discussed Chinese History with 413 and 139 at night, and talking about knowledge is one of the most effective way of reinforcing knowledge.
34`The pressure can make me more focused, but it also caused great consumption of energy. This mid-term exam might help stabilize my messy internal clock, and strangely, when I was sleeping more than 7.5 hours, I was often much more sleepy in the day than if I only sleep 6 hours like I did these two days. Should I really implement this 6-hour cycle, and make up for the sleep debts on weekends?
11`I spent more than 25 hours reviewing Chinese History, and did well on the exam. However for the CS test, I seriously underestimated its difficulty, because either our Zybooks activities or our Exam practice problems were not hard. The percentage in GPA is also low: only 10%, so I almost spent no time reviewing CS. Next time the test will not be on the same day as other tests, so I'll pay attention next time.
31`Added on 171001: Happy birthday motherland! More and more Chinese teens are supporting you now! Yesterday night I enjoyed the high-quality performance of mid-autumn festival gala; today I attended VandyHacks workshop and later made dinner with dxh. RIP for those died in Vegas attacks; so many bad things have happened in this country at such an accelerating pace.
