D5P83-171002
11`In the afternoon in our Visions group meeting, we built marshmallow towers in groups of five, and although I joined with another civil engineer Matt, our tower ultimately failed.
My design was like the Oriental Peral tower of Shanghai, with 3 thick pillows supporting the entire structure, but successful towers turned out to be those with thin but net-like pillars.
Joey, whose tower succeeded, told me that it’s important to add connections in the side so that the structure doesn’t twist. That’d be an important lesson for a civil engineer!
11`This morning we had the Gen Psy mid-term test. I started preparing for it since 6 PM yesterday until 2 AM; Knowing the test will be harder than expected, I realized that I wasted too much time in the weekend.
13`I tried to read and let concepts click with my mind, leaving a vague “neural path” that will suffice for multiple choice questions, because rigid reciting is definitely ineffective not only for memorizing, but also for long-term benefits in mindset.
11`The test was indeed very hard. My final score was 50/61, only two points away from the 80% deadline. By 9 PM 150 people have signed up for the retake, indicating the rigor of the exam.
41`979 later talked to me about how she exploded in the exam; she’s contacted me 7 times but I’ve done none from my side, but I have an intuition that we’re not necessarily the best fit, so I’ll just treat her as a friend. My friendship with 671 is also developing quickly; in my conversations with her I never struggle to come up with topics because she does most of the job.
11`The score of the CS test also came out today; I scored a very unexpected 94, 133 got 88, 139 got 84, class average below 70. The score was placed in spam so I initially didn’t find it; on discovering the spam section I found that BOA sent a lot of emails to me…
After learning the score, I was astonished. By now except for the Chinese history test, on which I should have gotten good scores, mid-terms are complete, and my performance has exceeded my best anticipation. Math, top 10% of class (me 102 and 139 98); CS, top 10% of class despite no reviewing at all… Full A’s in this term seem so close at hand.
14`I spent half an hour calming myself down: am I really more talented than I thought? If I can maintain this impetus, should I plan to transfer to UPenn or Northwestern or Duke or Cornell? Or is it, like 496 said, just very easy for all Chinese to get all A’s?
Will my impetus wane, just like I dropped from top 5 of Class 4 in The 1-2 Test in Oct 2014, to top 50% In The 1-4 Test in Jan 2015? (Not quite likely, since I’ve analyzed the reasons for this numerous times and will avoid past mistakes now.)
21`Recently I’ve spent a great deal of time thinking about my future plans, especially major choice (if continue the civil path, I might really consider transfer?).
My ChemE teacher has provided some good info about career planning: GPA is only top 3 important for those entering workforce, but if you want to enter a top-notch grad school, a 3.9 GPA will be crucial.
PhDs are good for Chemistry majors, but not necessary for engineers because they learn applied side of knowledge, except if engineers want to research the fields that are so cutting-edge that they’re not yet applied to real-world.
24`Added on 171006: Because of excessive naps in previous days, I cannot sleep now... damn it. Just now I browsed the WeChat pages of many of my friends. This is for the first time since 6/19, and it is indeed a great way to relax and adjust myself, although it’s important that I don’t get addicted to it.
24`WeChat usage among my friends is below my expectation. Apparently boys use it a lot less than girls; maybe because of this, boys are generally far less popular than girls in Moments.
41`Among all of my friends, the page of 671 was one of the most impressive, as she shows maturity and a good personality, and excellent Chinese expression skills.
24`One thing to note here is that many of my friends might have chosen FB or Snapchat or even LinkedIn as their new platform of socializing; after all, these are what Americans use most often. I also wonder if Qzone usage has significantly declined; my glimpse of 139’s phone when he was browsing Qzone tells me no.
34`Compared to September, my drowsiness during the day has decreased much. However, because I can’t control my nap during the day, my sleep cycle keeps shifting late into the night: from 9 PM when first arrived to 3 AM in just a few weeks.
According to past experiences, my sleep time is supposed to be stable, but since college starts I’ve frequently experienced insomnia. The all-nighter today might be a good chance for me to readjust my circadian cycle. I might also want to consider going to libraries to prevent myself from sleeping during the day, sleeping only by lying on the table, not bed.
11`My Chinese History test score was much lower than I expected, partly because I didn’t follow the format in the essay, which the teacher never told us beforehand. I can only hope for an A- in this course now.
Since then, I have developed a fear towards social science subjects. Despite the setback, I still like this course and our teacher, because the things I learned here has long-term benefits that won’t be explicit but will eventually benefit me.
31`Added on 171008: Today I applied for the Alternative Spring Break. My essays for application are stored in another document. Yesterday I finished this round of ACT tutor work and earned about ¥1000. I am still coughing, and so are many of my friends, who have suffered from the great temperature difference between indoors and outdoors.
31`227 and 204 have come for the fall break, and I was uninformed at all although I am the only one from Class 2. What happened to the relationship between me and my friends?
24`Typically I don’t hang out with the Gang of Four (133, 139, 413, 544) when eating dinner, etc., because I think these guys only talk about boring things (though they’re all pretty smart in studies). I prefer to spend that time socializing with someone else or just using my phone.
The cost to this is obvious: I tend to be excluded when they attend some good activities together. This is neither side’s fault but a natural outcome of my not sticking to them. 120 didn’t come to our meetings throughout; I concluded that she doesn’t like to hang out with other NFLSers.
23`(word count of college diary up to now: 10996 words)
