D5P84-171008
<h2>Career prospects and major choice SPECIAL</h2>
[h3]【Part 1】Background and introduction:
23`For many months, I have thought about the reason I stood out while many others seemingly talented people failed for college application: 236, 136, 941, 309, 405, 939, 009, 232, 914… Of course, those who achieved reversal or slipped back significantly only make up a small proportion, and most people achieved what they deserve. But this minority of people have taught me something about the pattern of life.
23`My own success is due to both luck and ability. My ingrained ability of self-reflection that developed since 2013, my English skills that’s good since young and good test scores, my long passion for LNYS and my extraordinary essay on it which shows my distinct personal qualities, my upward trend of academics… these are my solid abilities. The tremendous help and guidance from NLC was an external “luck” factor; the fact that they recommended Vandy for ED and that I chose VU is plain good luck. The timing of the 12/12 and the 5/0 Incidents is also extremely lucky for me.
23`ACT Prep (ACT Prep), the 5 months of intense English self-learning that lasted from 2016/4/10 to 9/10, directly contributed to my success in the college application. Faith was what guided me throughout the process of ACT Prep, and was one of the most important reasons I succeeded. The strong desire for high ST scores and the conviction that I’ll surely succeed in the ST drove me to go through highly effective English training in 2016. Without the faith, my success in ACT Prep would not be possible. Although my direction at the time was not always correct, the general direction was never significantly deviated.
23`Getting into a top-15 college isn’t the end yet. From those who didn’t achieve as high in college application, there will certainly be some people who eventually “nixi” in the career, whereas top-20ers can lag behind if their progress halts. Luckily, since college started, I have generally maintained the good momentum in academics. But I still lack one thing. A direction and a faith.
14`At first, my decision for the “fundamental goal for college life” is to become “a person with very strong multidisciplinary academic background” (D5P77). However, this vague statement fails to give me a clear direction, because knowledge is limitless and I’ll have to choose some fields of concentration. So what on earth should my major be?
21`Since late September, I have been actively trying to figure that out. However, the more I research, the more I feel anxious and aimless, sometimes even depressed, because (1) there are so many paths that seem good to take, and I don’t know which to follow; (2) to decide on my path, there are so many internal and external factors to consider, and I’m often stranded in the inner conflict.
For weeks, I was in a state like that of 2015 Fall, uncertain about future path and prospects and actively exploring, my plans and viewpoints constantly adjusting.
21`It’s worth noting that I’m not the only one struggling with major choice. Many peers have few ideas about their choice too, sometimes oscillating between an “unpopular” but interesting major and a “hot”, easy-to-get-a job major.
21`By October, after much careful research, I and my family have finally decided on my major—computer science. In this 3000+-word essay, I will record all the thoughts and factors that will affect one of the most important decisions in my life, meanwhile exploring other aspects of my future path choice.
[h3]【Part 2】The importance of the choice of major and path:
23`I have about 5,000 to 8,000 hours to spare for developing my professional skills in college life. That’s a tremendous amount of time; compared to that, I only spent 1,000 hours preparing for the college admissions tests in 2016! That many hours are enough to master a field of knowledge, so I should carefully consider what I should learn.
As a Zhihu dashen said, some skills can only be learned at school, while other “soft” skills might as well be learned after graduation. It’s imperative that I utilize this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to build some solid, irreplaceable, professional skills, because I won’t be able to learn anything systematically after going out of the school.
23`Although we’re required to declare our majors only by early 2019, making sure my path as early as possible will provide many more advantages and initiatives. 139, 133, and 619 have been working closely in various programming activities, and CS students are already making connections within each other.
Also, as mentioned in Part 1, I need a direction to give me a faith to fight for. Finally, enrollment for next semester starts on 11/9, and I’ll have to choose classes related to my major, as I’ve done much of the prerequisites this semester. So, I will have to determine my path by this month.
[h3]【Part 3】CS vs CE:
21`Although civil engineering (CE) has been my most interested subject since my youth, my interest in computer science has grown rapidly since I took the CS 1101 class; I have discussed that multiple times recently. Although Mom suggests me to follow my interest and says that CE is a great major, my research into CE has increasingly convinced me that it’s not as good as CS.
21`First and foremost, the skills I learn in CS will be much more transferrable, useful, and theory-oriented than CE. CS is similar to Math, and Maths skills are fundamental to a wide range of cutting-edge fields. CE is similar to Physics, and it incorporates more quasi-social-science courses; its emphasis on pure Maths skills is far less than CS, and the curriculum in general is more workforce-oriented. However, my parents and I all think it’s better to learn more theoretical things in college rather than the applied side of knowledge. Actually, I may as well go on to use my CS skills to engage in CE-related fields like intelligent transportation or smart city in the future.
21`Second, I seem to be good at CS and am quite interested in it as of now. My programming skills is better than most of my peers, and even seems to surpass that of 139’s. I’ve also scored 6 points higher than the experienced programmer, 133, in the first CS test, although it proved that his programming talents are better than mine. I find programming somewhat similar to Ballance map-making, both of which require strong abstract thinking ability. CS’ charisma also lies in the fact that a problem always has multiple approaches to solve it, and the elegance and simplicity of the best solution is always exciting for me.
21`In addition, CS seems very suitable for self-learning. Compared to CE, there are a plethora of resources that I can check out for learning programming, such as online forums like Tieba, excellent platforms like SoloLearn, and various practice books. I can also learn by just looking at the code of many default Java classes, which gives very professional examples and excellent explanations of good codes. As I said, self-learning is exactly what I’m good at!
21`Fourth, there are much more opportunities to test and challenge my programming and Maths skills. For CE, there is only a bridge construction contest in the junior year; for programming, there are ACM and many other hackathons that I can attend.
21`Last, many of my friends have chosen CS, so I will have more support if I also choose CS. Previously, I thought not choosing the same major as many others will give me an advantage for less competition for resources and a calmer attitude. I also wanted to differentiate myself from the rest of the others, and not make others feel that I’m a blind follower. However, these do not seem to outweigh the benefits of choosing a “hot” major.
More people means more competition, which is not necessarily a bad thing; it also means a greater community to seek help or get cooperation from, especially now that many CS people are Chinese (unlike in CE where there is not a single Chinese except me). I can especially seek help from NFLS xuezhang and xuejie whenever I encounter difficulties in CS studies.
21`What about other majors? I have considered Math + Physics, but the thing is I definitely need to stay in the School of Engineering to maintain my AP credits. As to various engineering majors, chemical seems the most promising, but as of now I’m not quite interested in and good at it.
23`My initial choice of CE has its root in my personal profile. Before college application, I was quite uncertain about my major because my interest was changing rapidly. When preparing for ACT I even thought about an English literature major because I was reading a ton of English books. However, because of the key role that my LNYS project had to play in my application, I applied for civil engineering/physics in order to fit my profile.
23`In retrospect, although I lost some initiatives by not being a CS major at the start of college life, and by not having studied programming before, this does not mean that my time was wasted. Instead, everything I’ve done since 2013 is meaningful in some sense:
Ballance map-making trained my creativity and imagination, and my experience as bazhu (Moderator) taught some management skills. LNYS was crucial in my college application. The soccer career helped me gain some new friends and new outlook. My video and album making was meaningful in itself, and the benefits of my vigorous social expansion in early 2015 has been emerging. I also kept a generally good studying habit since 2014. My exploration of love since 2016 is also extremely useful for knowing myself and others better. Most recently, my experience as an ACT tutor has especially enriched my life experiences.
[h3]【Part 4】Grad school VS workforce:
21`Although my parents want me to go for a PhD, and I’ve also planned so originally, recently I have been getting more job-oriented, because the vast majority of my teachers/upperclassmen doesn’t mention PhD at all, and throughout our activities we’re always asked to prepare for employment or internships.
I’ve begun to question the necessity of a PhD because, if PhD is that valuable and I can get jobs more easily after obtaining it, why don’t people typically compete for a good grad school but instead compete for a job position?
21`My parents explained that people can already get a pretty good job with a BS degree; especially for Americans, who are generally disinclined to studying and who are better at socializing (which is important for employment), PhDs are unnecessary and painful.
However, things are a bit different for international students. We are disadvantageous in the job market not only because of less networks, but also because of visa policies that favor people with higher degrees of education.
21`Indeed, as of now, grad school seems the best choice for me, because to be employed, extracurriculars and socialization are of equal importance to GPA, and I don’t think I’m ever good at that in the American environment. On the contrary, if 3.9 GPA and some research experience is all that’s needed for a top grad school, I would have much, much more focus and direction for college life.
21`A potentially excellent path would be the 2+2 program, in which I get a master’s degree in 4 years. For PhD, AI and advanced algorithms seem to be hot topics for research now, and I’ll consult our CS teacher for more information.
[h3]【Part 5】What do employers look for and the importance of social life:
21`Today (10/9) our Visions meeting is about career. As the VUceptor points out and as one xuejie has said, many jobs interviews cannot be gained without “referral”—networks with peers, upperclassmen, employees, or employers. If you “haitou” (randomly deliver your resume), it’s highly likely that no one will ever look at your resume.
21`On 10/10 I also read two articles that dramatically changed my view towards networking. One is written by a NFLS xuejie from Duke who’s just been employed in Bank of America. She says that employers at these companies often favor people with good personalities: open, enthusiastic, dedicated, adaptable, good communication and presentation skills; they don’t even emphasize your major and GPA at all.
22`Another passage is about the importance of networking in grad school application (which contradicts the claim I made in Part 4); and, like college admissions, grad school also frequently turns down high-GPA applicants in favor of the people with likable qualities.
24`If that’s really the case, if friends are the “threshold” to a good job, then… well, I don’t think my social strategies should be changed (or can be changed). I’ve had a lot of friends at Vandy, most of the friendship developed through dining together. I also occasionally check out many peer’s WeChat Moments. I don’t expect to reach out to Americans on my own initiative.
The only problem was with my previous NFLS friends, as I’ve basically severed my connection with them. However, they won’t refuse me if I add them on LinkedIn or Facebook sometime in the future, will they?
24`I cast doubt on the claim that the more friends I have, the more opportunities I would get. I am still mad at the fact that previously NFLSers always hide what they’re doing, in doing so effectively deceiving each other, in college application, especially girls: 928, 219, 248, 621, even 124. From my observation, those who seem intimate with each other doesn’t seem to offer life-changing opportunities with each other either.
[h3]【Part 6】Stay in the US VS return to China:
21`As the saying goes, “high EQ, China; high IQ, US.” Life is stable but monotonous if you just be a programmer in Silicon Valley, given the unlikelihood for Chinese people to be promoted to a decision-making position. Life will be risky but have much more possibilities if you return to China.
21`Some people have chosen to first work for a few years in the US and then seek more possibilities back in China. As some Zhihu dashens have said, the first job we get have a kind of impact on the rest of our lives. People who gain an initial advantage will have more freedom to choose their paths, as shown by those NFLSers who work in a Investment Bank for a few years and then start a start-up.
21`My parents have diverged a bit on this issue; Dad has an entrenched inclination to hope me to return and contribute to the motherland, while Mom thinks the US is a better choice, citing the relative deficiency of Chinese university and scientific research systems. I have worried that I won’t be able to compete against Chinese researchers because I never underwent the intense STEM training of Gaokao.
21`I would like my parents to reflect on the career paths of their high-achieving friends, and also reflect on what resources they can provide if I return to China.
[h3]【Part 7】Evaluation of my relative strength:
23`Among the 168 NFLSers who go to US universities, 18 enter a top-12, 40 enter a top-15, and 54 enter a top-20. So, my position can be viewed as at the top 20~25% of the grade, or about No. 75 to No. 100 out of the 400+ people. That’s already a major improvement compared to my position in middle school, but it’s still not quite impressive.
23`Of course, once we begin to pursue different paths, it’d be not quite reasonable to make absolute comparisons. But it’s still quite important to know my general position among my peers. I won’t go into much detail in this because it’d be a big project. Generally, my academic momentum seem to be better than the majority of my Vandy peers, including Chinese (many of whom frequently play games or watch videos); my friend circle and extracurricular involvements are my deficiencies.
14`Because of the “silent majority” effect, I have often ignored those who don’t have my desired qualities and tend to think that everyone else is better than I am. Especially among NFLSers, I have a tendency to compare one aspect of myself with the best person in that aspect.
[h3]【Part 8】My ultimate goals and desires:
23`As of now, my ultimate goal is simple: Use my extensive knowledge to gain the power (i.e. status) to participate in the decision-making process of major historic events, meanwhile achieve personal financial freedom and flexibility; be with an inclusive, supportive, respectful, equal group of co-workers who recognize me, share the same goals and ideals with me, and whose personality is similar to mine (refer to 216, 402); have friends all across the world, my friendship with whom is like water; have a harmonious family.
[h3]【Part 9】Conclusion and implications:
21`On 10/11 night, after a hot discussion with my parents about my inclination to change my major, they expressed strong support for the change to CS. Now, there is little suspense over my future concentration of study.
21`One small implication of changing to CS will be that I will give up the thought of transferring to other colleges. I had thought about transferring to CMU or another college (preferably in a big city) for a better education in CE (and some other benefits), but if I choose CS, it’d be unnecessary to consider inter-collegial transfer because of the fierce competition and my lack of relative experiences to support the application for CS (compared to CE).
23`The decision to change my major will be the most important decision of 2017. It is a difficult choice, but once I get it done, it is a big problem solved. The next thing to do will be to explain to my advisor and go over the relevant procedures. I will also need to inform my friends of this choice, as so far I’ve always been a civil engineer when I introduced myself.
21`Next, I will have plenty of time (as I said, up to ten thousand hours) to plan my future and catch up on those who have a strong programming background (such as 457 and 124—they are my models for CS learning! And so is my roommate 133). A few years later I would decide on whether to take the Honors Program and what I should do after graduation. My goal will most likely be obtaining a PhD from Stanford University.
14`As a final self-assurance, even if the path of CS doesn’t turn out well in the future, it’d be no big deal. Before college application I also took so, so many “wrong” paths, but eventually everything turned out just fine. So, whenever I’m under stress and encounter some obstacles: relax, believe in myself, be positive about the future, seek friends and family for support, and remember to let everything happen naturally. And whenever I’m feeling too confident, adjust when necessary. The future is bright, and let’s work hard for our dreams! 【20171008 = 2^8 × 11 × 13 × 19 × 29】
