D5P86-171022
<h2>First dinner with 493</h2>
41`On 10/22 night I and 493, a NFLS xuejie from Vandy Class of 2020, ate dinner at Commons and we spent 2 hours together from 7 to 9 PM. She added me on WeChat in early September, and I invited her 2 weeks ago but she was busy at the time.
Since the NFLS hangout on 9/2, I hadn’t seen her until at VandyHacks on 10/20. That’s strange since I can sometimes see some other xuezhang/xuejie between classes or at Rand during meals.
41`At first, we talked mainly about the course she and I took. She and I took exactly the same AP (except she didn’t take Physics E&M). 493 took Japanese and Music for non-major courses for the first year, and said that at her time CS 1101 was easier than ours, perhaps because the school wants to discourage people from learning CS from this year on.
She didn’t do many things for the summer vacation, and says that freshman year was relatively easy but work load suddenly increased since sophomore year (which contradicts some other upperclassmen’s claim).
41`We also talked about the activities we took: she says she had FOMO in the first year and was lost in the random activities. (She’s also quite sporty, having joined a frisbee club and the martial arts club.) For the last Spring Break and next Thanksgiving, she goes to Canada: that’s an interesting way to spend the break, and I also want to try it!
41`After dinner, she visited my dorm (she says it’s the first time she visits a boy’s dorm) and took me to her dorm in Towers 1. There I looked at her Maths-2410 and CS-2212 textbooks, and her CS-2201 e-book, and we went on to talk about some random topics (we don’t run out of topics when talking!).
I was shocked by how bad the conditions are in upperclassmen’s dorms. Their room is a bit smaller, and because they have much more stuff, it was pretty messy and very crowded. 493 said that she failed 5 times when choosing the dorm…
41`During our talk, I can discern her attention to me: she is familiar with my experiences as described in my post on NFLS Official Account on the New Year’s Day, and praised me for being purposeful (she spent the entire freshman year not knowing what major to choose). She also expressed the desire to follow me on Zhihu when I mentioned I want to publish my Diary there. When she showed me her computer, I spotted that one of her tabs on Google Chrome was my VandyHack group project page.
41`493 is very polite and tends to take an inferior position, as she frequently apologizes and always lets me walk first and speak first, and even mentioned that she’ll send me to my dorm before I departed. Despite this, her personality is not self-abased, as when I praise her she would thank me instead of denying that quality. (I also exhibited my own politeness on a few occasions.)
41`Back in my dorm, I sent an extract from my D5P84 to her (on her request), and asked her for advice. My time spent with 493 was the happiest time I have had since the day I knew my first CS mid-term grades.
As of now it’s hard to talk about our feelings of each other; in future I’ll definitely spend more time with her and know her better, because I can’t miss this chance if it turns out that she’s the best fit.
11`Later I looked at 133’s code for Minaj 2.0 and was surprised by how he ingeniously came up with several algorithms to solve the problems I took much more lines to solve. He only wrote 410 lines of code! I am far less clever than he is in terms of programming, really. I’m proud of him!
32`On 10/23 the temperature plummeted, as last night I only wore a shirt but today I need much more. My coughing is back again. The forecast even says that it will snow in the next 10 days! I heard from 309 that he’s going to Chicago for Thanksgiving; I may as well consider that!
42`Added 10/24: These two days, I have been thinking about the implications of my meeting with 493. Evaluating my inner feelings, I am aware that since the 5/0 Incident I have not felt such an intense emotion towards a girl. Her stare is just so powerful…
But of course, since our bond is still quite shallow (I can’t even remember her face clearly when thinking about her), my feelings are still controllable. (Once I think of someone for a sufficiently long time, undesirable things might happen. Because of this, I have become much more prudent in love affairs.)
42`Through reflecting on my own story and observing others, I now have learned to rationally analyze the girl’s personality and reliability, to deduce her feelings for me through subtle evidence, and to analyze and control my own emotions towards her, although I still relatively lack experience for how to maintain the relationship once it’s formally established.
42`Well, that won’t be a big deal if we’re really the best fit. Back when I was intimate with 962, Zhihu was the platform that connected us together naturally and brought us countless topics and opportunities for interaction: it’s enormously powerful!
Besides that, I and my partner can study together, work out or do sports together, watch movies or TV series together, make dinner together, travel together at weekends, decorate our room together, read books (or textbooks) and discuss them together, discuss life together…
42`Back to 493. As I said, I want our friendship to strengthen and trust to develop through months of communication, but because of our completely different daily commute routes, dorms being diagonally across campus, and different dining position and time, I had only “encountered” her once since college.
That’s a major issue since my rapidly increasing friendship with many freshmen has demonstrated the significance of “Law of Distance.” If I want to chase her, it’s imperative that I proceed step by step and don’t frighten her with abrupt actions, so I have to first find chances for meeting her that are both natural and frequent.
42`493 eats at Bamboo for brunch and I can’t meet her there, but I can eat at Kissam every night (I can stay on main campus to study every afternoon). It’d still be a bit weird to eat at somewhere farthest from Commons, but we’ll get used to it. Besides that, I can frequently ask her to help me with academics, connecting with 2019ers and 2020ers. It doesn’t seem easy, but at any rate, I’ll try my best to find such chances…
42`When I spend time with her, I need to progressively express my affection towards her, first complimenting on her (her clothes, bag, personality, quality, glasses?, etc.) and gradually using more intimate words, and continue to observe her reactions. I also need to memorize information about her that she mentions (like Richard did for me).
42`How about social media? As I said, interactions on social media is also a good (although not best) way to increase friendship, and is especially useful, even powerful, for a potentially romantic relationship. However, I still think spending time with the real person is the best way to get to know them.
I’ve looked at 493’s WeChat page, but I know that many deep qualities, abilities, and personalities can only be sensed in real-life interactions (especially for me, as my Qzone has been a huge mess with lots of “black history” I don’t want my new friends to know), though social media also has its advantages, especially when used purposefully.
42`And what about chatting online? It’s of course good, but overall, FTF communication is the best option. When spending time in real life, the talk is much more informative, as you also act and express emotions, and due to the memory’s association of the dynamic surrounding environment with the talk, it’d be a lot more memorable than talking via the phone, though no chat history is recorded.
When FTF, it’s also easier to find topics to talk about (and it’s unnecessary to keep talking); especially now that we’re not yet familiar with each other, talking about random topics on the phone would be awkward.
24`One important thing to note is that chasing a girl is extraordinarily similar to “chasing” an employer or professor. This insight is inspired by the Duke xuejie’s article I mentioned in D5P84. The analytical and behavioral techniques that’s developed through chasing a girl will shed light on what I should do to build up networks with valuable people.
Analyze the other side’s background and identity, find ways to develop the connection, avoid stating my purpose at the very beginning, show my quality and strengths at the right time and in the right way, say things to make the talk enjoyable...
24`493’s identity as a NFLSer has helped us rapidly develop bonds. She got to know me first through my post on NFLS’ Official Account, and at our meeting I wouldn’t have so naturally mentioned visiting her dorm were we not share a similar identity.
There are also downsides to this shared identity, as there will be less diversity I can experience compared to if the other side is from another background. But this drawback does not outweigh the benefits; our bond would be a lot more difficult to develop otherwise.
43`What if we’re really together? Well, it might be too early to think about this, but it’s still important. The reason Alexander the Great’s empire fell quickly is because he only conquered but not governed nor managed. Succeeding in chasing a girl is not the end. It will bring changes to my life that has to be taken care of.
43`Having a lover can significantly increase my influence in our circle of peers. In this case, being with an upperclassman will make me famous in both our class and the class of 2020, and so will 493. My friends might almost double. I will also gain more of their experience as upperclassmen.
43`In case we’re together, I would need to publish my first post on Moments in months. This post would surely attract a lot of attention and have powerful influence, so I must carefully organize what to say in the post to promote myself as a reliable, mature, caring man.
The girl would also post things that compliment me (best with specific descriptions of my qualities and using poetic language) and increase my reputation among our circle.
43`If we study together, she might also teach me the course I’m learning and some advanced courses, and we’ll both learn. At college, a romantic relationship is all about learning from each other, offering cooperation and resources, providing emotional support, and having fun.
42`What if things don’t turn out well? Well, because I plan to publicize my experiences at Vanderbilt with a fanfare, it’s expected that I would attract some underclassmen’s attention. Being single for another year until a cute xuemei appears would also be a good choice…
And in case I break up with someone, the best cure might be to study crazily to divert my attention and get the sense of achievement that suppress the pain of breakup. This is what my experience of post-5/0 recovery has taught me.
【20171022 = 2 × 3 × 757 × 4441】
