D5P87-171027
21`On 10/24 I met with my Civil Engineering advisor. He is from India and, although being a teacher in CEE and ME, says he is doing a lot of CS work in his research and with his grad students. He assures me that CS and Maths is a good choice for a undergraduate education, and I may as well go for CE for master’s or PhD: he himself has a CE grad student with CS background!
32`I later went for the flu shot. When given the shot, the doctor kept complimenting on the color of my glasses, major choice… that’s such an ingenious way to divert my attention from the pain?!
12`On 10/24 night I attended a lecture at the Commons about biology professors looking for undergrads who are interested in analyzing the tons of data generated in their experiments.
In the Q&A part, a girl first thanked the professor before asking a question, which is impressive and what I should learn. I realize that this is a great chance to experience research and learn from practice, so wrote an email to one of the profs, but haven’t received reply as of 10/25.
21`In the lecture, the profs talked about their own paths, arguing that one’s interest can change dramatically when studying in college (that’s why I always use an uncertain tone when writing that major choice Diary).
They also reiterate that grades are only thresholds, and they look for students more for their qualities. Beginning research as early as a freshman will help us explore our interest, establish bonds with profs who can potentially connect us to other dashens, write letters of recommendation, or offer life advice.
11`For the 2nd round of mid-terms, I got 92 for CS-1101 while 133 got 100 and 139 97. Class median is big-80s. I got 97 on Math-2300 while 139 got 82. Class median is mid-80s.
13`Because of the sudden drop of temperature and because of my ongoing sickness, I have been studying in libraries and working out less and less and prefer to spend all day in my dorm.
The monotonous life has eroded my studying motivation somewhat, as I’ve not been utilizing “dark time” to think about Maths and CS now, and overall study time has declined.
13`Aware of the Cycle of Motivation, a lesson from Zhongkao Prep, I know that my motivation decline is inevitable because I pushed myself too hard in September, and my energy might be restored later.
I’m in the process of restoring it now, learning about the importance of CS and Maths skills and giving myself positive mental hinting to increase faith and confidence.
14`At present, it does no harm to let myself be moderately proud or even narcissistic, as my confidence and mood have been low recently, partly because 139 and 619 talked too much about other xueba NFLSers, especially of Class 1 (such as 124, who wrote 4000 lines of program in middle school).
13`I read some articles about life on HuoLaoye recently. My feeling is you shouldn’t read about what you should do in your life. Instead, read history.
When reading history, you have to think about life on your own and actively organize information, instead of passively receiving direct information about what to do. Isn’t that much more effective?
