D5P88-171028
41`On 10/28 night, I and 493 met again and spent another 3 hours together; I invited her the previous day, wanting to “ask her some more questions”, although there aren’t really a lot of meaningful questions. We arrived at FGH at exactly the same time on 7 PM; then I, she, and her friend 475 first went to the ghost house in Mctyeire.
41`Then 475 took us to Areyh’s Kitchen, a Thai restaurant where we can use our meal money. Unfortunately, my nausea persisted (I’ve been feeling unwell since last Wed and have been eating mostly fruits as meals), so I ate only a few of the food. My throat is not in good condition as well… Ugh.
41`Back in Towers, I and 493 entered the common room; I took out my laptop and showed the courses I plan to take the next semester, and she helped me install an “extension” that can let me see the professors’ RMP rating directly on YES, and provided some information on the teachers and courses. (For her freshman Spring semester, she failed to get in all 5 courses she chosen and only got into 2 of them in waitlist… Horrible…) I then showed her what I learned in Gen Psy, but didn’t explain some of the concepts well.
21`493 said that she heard that those who applied for CS PhD didn’t end up quite well; some went to Michigan—Ann Arbor while others went to UCSD. Vandy is really not good at CS, she said.
This greatly contradicts what my mother has said, and is significant bad news for me (if it’s true), and I must find out whether I really can’t get into a top-notch school for PhD because it’d be important for my confidence, which is crucial for my motivation.
Well, hasn’t Dr. Bayer said that 3.9 GPA will be good for a top grad school? What’s more, if I go CE, wouldn’t I end up even worse?
41`On my way back to Commons, a black man shouted at me something I could not understand; fortunately he wasn’t in my way and I was able to walk away promptly.
41`This second meeting with 493 is significant because I’ve finished setting the stage for our future contacts. Just before the meeting ended in 10:10 PM, I (quite naturally) said that I will visit her every Thu/Fri/Sat, and study advanced courses with her. This can either be I read books and ask her questions whenever I don’t understand something, or she teaches me the contents.
I also asked her when she eats dinner, and she says usually 6:30 to 7. She “very welcomes” me to study with her and have dinner with her and other upperclassmen at Kissam.
42`Note that for the entire week I’ve been thinking about how to meet her more frequently without being too abrupt. I finally came up with that “ingenious” solution: study advanced courses together with her!
After all, after the Psy and His 4-3 Tests are done next Friday, I won’t have much trouble with Maths and CS and am eager to learn in advance. I will also connect with more upperclassmen. These are all multi-purpose actions that can greatly push my growth.
42`Things turned out better than my expectation. I have imagined what I should say if 493 didn’t agree with my plan to study with her, and I have thought hard about how to balance my word choice to be neither too direct nor too conservative, both showing my own strengths and praising hers; and how to make my actions both affectionate and unabrupt…
41`Our talk, it turned out, is very natural. When having dinner, 475 implicitly joked the two of us a few times (such as saying we could hold a joint birthday party, after I mistakenly said my birthday was 2/13), and 493 acquiesced.
34`I’ll first finish the egghurt Maths homework and crack our History exam next week. From 11/6 on, I am projected to change my biological clock 1 hour earlier so that I can eat lunch at 11 and have dinner with 493 at Kissam, spending the afternoon studying near Wilson. (Note: now I’ve always gone back to Commons on MWF and eaten lunch at 2.) Hope we can make it as soon as in this semester!
42`Bottom Strategy: If she doesn’t effectively imply consent to be with me or we don’t have enough chances to get close enough by the end of the semester, I’ll first try my best to spend more time with her to at least achieve some of my planned self-growth purposes, such as getting to know more upperclassmen, learning CS from her, and learn from her qualities and experiences, and then try to impress her with my essay during winter break and my LNY work back in Spring Semester. Be mentally prepared that this love might not succeed.
