D5P89-171101
24`On 10/29 some NFLSers released their new MV. When I heard the news, my first reaction was disappointment in the producers didn’t thinking of me in creating this MV—I have been a recorder of our campus life for so many years! Why am I excluded yet again for a project? Not spending enough time with my classmates? It took me some time to reassure myself that I should put this “failure” in perspective. Why do I still feel very depressed whenever I hear about my previous classmates achieving something?
23`I reflected that a lack of concrete self-confidence is the reason. On 11/2, I read an essay that JF sent me, which confirmed my belief. If one is easily swayed by others’ actions and words, he will never achieve great deeds.
11`On 10/30 I started to review Chinese history, but my efficiency is low when reading the Tanner book. I can be generally very engaged when reading Wiki and especially Baidu-pedia, but why can’t I just concentrate when reading the book? Such is the influence of study materials on efficiency: The Tanner book is written in a rather messy and unengaging way; on the other hand, the clear structure and internal links of Wiki is definitely better for learning.
13`On the other hand, my review of psychology test has been more efficient. I’m interested in the materials, which are colorful and well-organized, and there are many interactive ways that I can effectively reinforce my knowledge. Also, the tests are multiple-choice so that I only need a vague sense of the concepts. I also explained to 493 what I’ve learned (D5P88), and although the entire process only lasted a few minutes, the concepts I explained to her at the time left a particularly deep impression on me.
21`On 10/30 our Visions group visited the career center. We played a game to help us discover what kind of life is satisfactory to us.
12`On 10/31 I visited Prof. Neuert’s biology lab. I am assigned a task to design with MatLab an interactive user interface and create a webpage: the professor wants his program, which analyzes the area of cells from microscopic pictures and stuff, to be available to all other researchers. Such a great opportunity!!
34`On 11/1 my lack of appetite and coughing have improved. However, I’m still eating only sausage and four side fruits as breakfast. Because of not eating enough food for breakfast, I’m more hungry and so my lunch and dinner time has come earlier, sometimes back to 12:30 and 18:00, while in the previous two months I’ve been eating meals at 2 PM and then 7:30 PM. That’s when the dining hall is fuller, but there’s also more people that I could meet.
