D5P90-171105
34`On 11/4 at around 22:40, a shooting took place in VA Hospital. Some VU students report hearing gunshots near Branscomb. The fact that the situation in the US is deteriorating now (three major attacks in the past one month) also makes me think whether I should consider a Plan B in case the USA collapses sooner than I expected.
32`On 11/5 DST began (there’s an extra 1 AM), and in the morning there was an unusually large number of people in the dining hall. People typically wake up pretty late at weekends, but not today.
31`On 11/5 I attended the “scavenger hunt” of ASB. Our group of 7 met and finished a series of tasks around campus before we were lead to our site leader’s dorm (in the luxurious Kissam). The group spent the entire afternoon doing some interesting ice breaking activities, and eventually we were told that our site was Brand New Day in Michigan.
When I first met with my group I felt that it’s been such a long time since I’ve talked to an American peer. For my fun fact, I said that I’ve written 20,000 words in my Diary in the 80 days since college started. Matt (my Visions group friend) and Ulysses (one of Hank RAs) are in my group.
32`I lost my Commodore Card mysteriously yet again in Wilson Hall. I should have known that if I put the card in my NFLS trousers, it will surely drop off. That’s 20 dollars! Good news is, when I checked out the Card Office website, I found the usage record of my card. That means I can write a program to calculate the average time that I eat breakfast, lunch, and dinner every day, which are data that I need much.
12`Of course, this program will be a bit tricky to write because of the way the card usage record is organized. Note: the next day I found my card and wrote the program. On average, I eat breakfast at 9:20, lunch at about 14:00, and dinner 20:00.
31`On 11/5 night I attended the VUCA activity of eating hotpot, and had a nice time talking with some upperclassmen and ABCs. One ABC xuejie said she joined a ton of clubs in freshman year but quit all of them…
