D5P92-171111
24`Today at night 459 xuejie organized a meeting for NFLSers, and nearly 20 people came. I got to know several upperclassmen in this meeting. In our table, the 2019er xuezhang beside me did most of the job talking.
14`The upperclassmen talked about how bad their prospects are. Whenever this happens, and also when my peers complain that they dislike the life at Vandy, or when they talk about how they copy their homework and hate studies and I feel excluded if I don’t do the same—these are when my motivation gets significantly undermined.
31`On 11/12 I attended TEDxVandy and listened to 7 speeches by Vandy students or faculty. I re-learned some techniques of story-telling: body movements, organization of speech, humor, voice and tone, motif…
The most impressive was the last speech given by a black woman on self-confidence, because it echoes what I’m thinking about recently. She emphasized the pivotal importance of confidence in a person’s life path—“when you become fully self-esteemed, your life will be completely different”; “confidence is a skill that can be honed.”
23`When I was rehearsing telling the story of Japanese history last night, I did feel this surge of self-admiration when everything went on well. Becoming eloquent will be the one of the keys to enhancing my innate confidence, and it will have long-term benefits on my personal charisma and life: interviews, social life, attracting girls, presentations, teaching, reinforce what I’ve learned…
42`Project Eloquence: It’s projected that from next week on, during each dinner with 493, I will talk about something that I’ve prepared for. Now the topics I’ve considered including world history, Chinese history, my ACT tutor experience, my view on college application, contemporary social issues, Zhihu or Official Account articles, and my future life path. I might spend some time practicing for my “presentation” each time before I meet her. Japanese history might be a good place to start since she can also talk about her trip to Japan.
