D5P93-171113
23`Life is such a box of chocolate. Things never unfold the way exactly what I want it to be. Coincidences often shape the progression of history. Even when planned carefully, some factors might be missed out when I make the strategy, and the outcome of a plan always has something I never expected.
41`On 11/14 at noon, as I was sitting outside of Commons, I encountered 459, who took me to Sarratt to sign up for “VUconnect”. I then ate lunch at Rand and very accidentally encountered 493, 451, and 488. I was planning to invite 493 in the afternoon, but WTF?
41`I sat down in their table, FTF with 493, and two minutes of awkwardness passed before I apologized for yesterday’s event and for not explaining things clearly, saying that I thought she knew I was going to eat there every day. She replied that she doesn’t want me to wait for her and eat with her every time, and to go so far from Commons for dinner every day.
I said that it’s good to eat with a variety of people but that it doesn’t matter for me to eat at Kissam, since I study at main campus every day. She wondered why I don’t stay near Commons, and I said I just tend to stay at main campus after classes finish.
41`Another few minutes of awkwardness later, I asked her about the Japanese course she took, and we started to talk normally. I then asked her whether she’d be willing to listen to me telling the story of the history of Japan, and then went on to talk about Japan’s history from prehistoric times. I only reached the rise of samurai and omitted the later part of the history because they had a class to catch at 13:10.
41`Although I stammered somewhat when talking (I’m really not good at such solo lecturing—when there is no interaction and discussion), especially at the beginning when I was quite nervous and unnatural, the result is not bad.
41`When I talked to 493, 488, who sat beside 493 and across me, laughed very mysteriously, and when I first saw 493, 459 also laughed mysteriously and joked me: “do you want to sit with that xuejie? You dare to?”. They know that I like 493 for sure.
