D5P97-171123
33`Today I, 133, 139, and 309 go to Chicago. Chicago’s metro system is very dilapidated, and the direction signs are not clear. Although it’s not really cold here, the wind is heavy, especially besides the lake. I only ate 1.5 meals yesterday and didn’t have breakfast today, but I wasn’t hungry until we had lunch at 13:00.
33`Later we go to UChi and briefly toured the campus. 315, 314, 130, and 146 are the four NFLSers there. After getting off the CTA we first passed through an area where black people live, and we felt very unsafe. Our friends at UChi later told us that they receive alert messages of shooting very frequently. Horrible...
31`Later 315, my erstwhile desk-mate back in 2015, led us into he and 130’s dorm, which is quite messy. Their dorm building is absolutely aesthetically and functionally superior to our dorms at Vandy—it was like a 4-star hotel—but I think it won’t really make much difference once people get used to their environment. They don’t have rigid meal plans like ours, and they can eat anything anytime they want...
21`At dinner, I and 315 had an important talk. He is also majoring in CS + Math (although having applied for Physics) and planning to work after graduation; he applied for some internships but didn’t receive reply because no one referred him (even a top-3 college student needs networking??). When asked whether most Chinese choose this path, he says there’s actually more majoring in economics; physics and chemistry are also common choice.
24`UChi is a very theory-oriented school, he says. There’s almost no such thing as engineering here, and CS courses are heavily focused on mathy algorithms and modeling instead of more practical skills. For example, for their Intro to CS class, they primarily learned how to write code for a calculator. He also attends some online programming contests, such as CodeForces. Course load is higher than that of Vandy, but tolerable. I also got to know 146, another UChi NFLSer, who was very friendly towards me.
33`On the subway back to the hotel, an old black man shouted some dirty words, seemingly targeting towards us four Chinese. This confirmed 315’s information that in Chicago, even Metro is unsafe (he takes metro with an American every time he goes out). At night I and 133 went to 7/11 store, and we were so scared we were literally jogging. Alas...
31`Also, recently my relationship with 139 is deepening rapidly. He frequently visits I and 133’s dorm, and talks about his experiences in classes, issues in doing homework, and their Class 1 classmates, with 133. Through him, I got to know the present situation of many Class 1 dashens and life at some other colleges, which is important because my contact with other NFLSers has basically stopped. He’s also responsible for the planning of our itinerary and for contacting other people, while I did much route planning.
33`On 11/24 we toured Chicago’s city center. The number of homeless people and beggars on the streets is astonishing, and few are really helping them. An anti-Trump rally was going on on Michigan Ave. A black man was giving a moving speech about the injustice, prejudice, and murder that black men have suffered from the police of Chicago and nationwide. I wonder what it has to do with stopping Trump... We then toured the 360Chicago where we viewed the city from a high building, and went to the big bean.
33`At noon, 139 mistakenly led the four of us into the Institute of Art before we ate lunch, and the museum turned out far bigger than we expected: from ancient to modern, from Asia to Europe to Africa, from painting to architecture, photography, sculpture, handicraft... It definitely needs an entire afternoon, or perhaps even more, to savor, but we were tired and hungry by 15:00.
33`Touring the art museum is a very brain melting activity, as I need to constantly recall knowledge learned from history class, and quickly skim through the description of the works, in order to understand those art works’ background, techniques used, and significance.
33`After we ate “dinunch” with four NFLS girls, we went to Navy Pier. Unlike us, who live in the city center, the girls live outside the urban area. This is not a wise choice, since although the price of their Airbnb is cheaper, they have to Uber every day, making the total cost higher. Their area is also very unsafe: last night they heard gunshot, and were very scared that a gunman will suddenly appear and take their lives...
33`On 11/25 we visited Northwestern University. 144 and 245 are two NFLSers admitted there in our grade. Before that I contacted 499 but she didn’t reply; she must be very busy... We first walked beside the beautiful lake and saw many “torture-dog” stones. Then we met 144 and I introduced myself to him, who later led us to his dorm, which is also messy and no different from the dorms of Chinese students we’ve seen across U.S. campuses.
31`Then we ate lunch with 144, and 245 and two of her friends. 245 has changed a lot; she talked very actively during the lunch, and this is very different from my previous perception of her as a quiet person. Maybe I just didn’t get to know her well when we were classmates in Class 2. Or maybe her goal of becoming a business leader has helped her transform her personality.
24`Although economics major is very popular in NU—that’s what the four hosts today are all majoring in, and many other non-econ majors also tend to choose to double major in it—144 said they typically can get into the economics classes they’ve chosen, unlike in Vandy where Econ classes are very, very difficult to get in.
24`Course load at NU is not very heavy, but admission to some business networking-oriented clubs or frats is very competitive. NU is very pre-professional, and many people go to consulting agencies after graduation, unlike in UChi where more pure research is taking place.
31`In the evening we attended the “Central United States NFLSer meeting”. As we expected, we cannot really get to know upperclassmen in this dinner, and people just tend to sit with people they know. I don’t quite wanted to socialize either because I think I already got enough information. At our table, 518 did most of the job talking, mostly about her experiences in Grinnell.
24`Overall, I learned greatly through spending time with these NFLSers. I have known that life and problems at other colleges is actually quite similar, and have known the major choice of many peers. This is significant because I’ve almost disconnected myself entirely from the rest of NFLSers since college started. I can now put myself in perspective and proceed with more confidence, knowing I’m never alone. After so many days in Nashville, it’s also good that I travel to other places to adjust my mind and regain motivation.
24`It turns out that not keeping in touch with those classmates through Instagram, WeChat, or Facebook is a correct decision. Especially for Instagram, there is almost no useful information there and it will create an illusion that all except me are living a happy life, which will harm my attitude and motivation.
33`On 11/26 we went to UChi again. When eating breakfast at Subway a black man came in and asked if we can buy him a meal.
21`Later I was inspired by some NFLS 2012ers’ articles and reinforced my decision to go PhD (previously, I’ve been considering working more than PhD). The primary reason is that working in big companies don’t make me feel like I’m achieving my value because the job I do will be basic. Research, on the other hand, offers a way to do the things we like.
24`After going back to the dorm at night I posted the first Moment in half a year. I’ve learned to exhibit my charisma in these photos, which is a major change even from Aug 2017. Not many people liked it... maybe people are busy with their due tonight. Anyway, the decision to post these photos is a strategic decision, as I’ve never posted photos of mine in WeChat before and this post will help future underclassmen know me better.
