D5P98-171127
23`Further discussion on Project Eloquence: (1) Now I’m indeed gradually trying to turn my experiences and diary into my talkativeness; (2) Eloquence is simply about knowing deeply about the topics you want to talk about, added with some techniques; it’s quite similar to preparing for the TOEFL speaking test. (3) The benefits of eloquence are discussed in D5P92, and it’s indeed an important part of my soft skills.
11`I scored 96 on the Maths 4-3 Test on 11/14. Class medium is 82. I scored 98 on the CS 4-3 Test on 11/15. Class medium is 89. This confirmed that a love experience won’t really interfere with studies that much (refer to the XiaoGaokao), although the positive effects are not as great as I thought as well?
23`Recently I’ve been greatly inspired by the writings of leemz2002. His spirit of lifelong learning, his programming experiences, his knowledge of almost everything, his view on a doctorate degree… all have effects on me. I’m also inspired by some articles of Huolaoye and Principal Laoli’s Official Accounts about EQ and workplace success.
12`On 11/30 I went to Neuert Lab for the 4th time, starting to build the program that Ben assigned me to do. I ask about his PhD program, and he says that students take grad classes in the first 2 years, pass a test, and spend the next 3 ~ 4 years doing research. He knows a person who came in as a prospective PhD but left with a master’s after that test, avoiding the tuition in a normal master’s program (OMG?!). He’s now in his fourth year, and plans to work in a company or college as a researcher after graduation, although the exact destination is uncertain.
24`On 12/1 I invited 876 to lunch. Our Visions group meetings ended before T-break, but the group members’ friendship has sustained. 876 is now the Public Relations co-chair of VUcept, which is impressive for a native Chinese. He has completely assimilated into the American culture, and has a separate friend circle from other Chinese 2020ers. (BTW: as of now, major friend groups have already formed in our grade. Even among the 70 Chinese students, there are also separate groups.)
24`876 knows many hundred people and has an active social life, and talked about the techniques of socialization with Americans. During the talk he said hi to many passers-by, and I expressed my admiration to him multiple times, saying that although I don’t want to live his life, I want to know what this kind of life is like.
31`On 12/3 our ASB group held AStudyBreak and we played an interesting board game. Again, it’s been a long time since I’ve socialized with Americans. I’ve been eating with almost the same set of Chinese people at Commons (or alone), and that’s almost the only way I socialize if there’s no Visions and ASB.
24`The Americans’ talk is extremely fast-paced and everyone is laughing wildly. I cannot engage in their conversations because (1) there is never even a second of silence when the guys are talking, and I don’t have a chance; (2) their topics are often unfamiliar to me; (3) I sometimes can’t understand them because they talk way too fast; (4) I definitely don’t have the English oral skills as natives. Still, listening to their talk can greatly expand my outlook, and I’m not completely excluded in the talk.
31`I talked to Ulysses, an ABC and CS sophomore who is truly a xueba. The 5 courses that Ulysses takes this semester are CS 2212, 2231, 3251, and Math 2410 & 2420. He came in with 43 AP credits and have even thought about graduating in 3 years. He says he expect to get A’s in half of the courses this semester. He has received an internship at a software company next summer, but introduced me to another ABC sophomore geek who already got a Facebook internship.
13`I’m wondering why CS majors don’t have a weekly meeting like CE does (I’ve stopped attending ASCE weekly meetings but are still getting emails from it). Socialization is important. Vandy definitely has many programming dashens, and I want to get to know them.
11`The finals are approaching, but the course load now is actually smaller than before. I actually don’t worry about finals and my roommate is as idle as always, playing video games and writing his battle game in Java.
