D5P234-190821
31`Since 8/17, my connections with my peers have resumed; when in China I didn’t talk to any of my Vandy peers, but now I talk with people all the time. When I talk to or hang out with them, my physical problems often go away. I’m actually super happy to see my friends!
41`8/21 is the first day of school. In the Math 3620 class, I saw 493 for the first time in months, and later sat to the left of her. (There are tons of senior Chinese students in this class.) In fact, I was thinking about 493 throughout the morning, and I planned to say “I miss you so much” when first meeting her (though I didn’t manage to do so).
41`Despite my love letter 8 months ago, we talk just like normal friends, although I still feel like we run out of topics very quickly… Now I hope she won’t drop this class since it seems that this will be basically the only way we keep in touch in this semester.
11`Since I spent almost 35 minutes in the queue for 2301 in the 70-minute break between the two classes and thus cannot finish my lunch, I decided to switch to the earlier section of Math 3320 and delay my MWF lunch time to 13:00.
24`On 8/22 I had dinner with a new friend, 476, and we had a crucial conversation that provided me with critical insights into the career prospects. 476 is a senior from Shanghai. He reiterates that He has also solved about 300 Leetcode problems, and he has had a few interviews before; he failed the second round of Google interview last year.
22`476 says that 492 solved 400 problems on Leetcode over the last summer—now I finally know how he got into FB! 476 discouraged me to apply to Amazon (since it doesn’t hire internationals) and Uber (since they are in financial crisis). He approved of my decision to graduate early, since it not only saves money and time, but the next year I would face even more competition.
22`The cs subreddit and the hire decisions on interviewing.io were misleading since people who post there are usually domestic job-seekers, while international students face harsher situations. In all, I realized that my level of hard work is lower than I thought. This is a huge motivation for me to reduce my entertainment time and spend more time on interviews…
14`Indeed, by the end of summer, my shuati progress has slowed much, and it’s driven mostly by inertia and interest, just like with Brilliant last summer. It’s time to instill some motivation in me.
21`474, who has just completed an Amazon internship but (strangely) hasn’t received a return offer, has decided to go for a PhD.
22`On 8/23 afternoon, I took 2.5 hours to fill out an application to Twitter. The company asks us to show our passion working with them, and a familiarity with their services, so I took much time to see what cultures and project teams they have. Here’s my application essay:
<em>
22`I have always dreamed of working at a company where new technology impacts the lives of millions. I dream of developing software alongside an intelligent team of engineers, and solve exciting problems in an aspirant community. A career at Twitter would help me achieve just that, with its wide user base, as well as diverse, rapidly-changing products.
22`Twitter services range from building infrastructure for the Twitter website, to powering storage systems that handle millions of queries each second; from enhancing IDEs that improve engineers’ efficiency, to designing customized search engines. Twitter’s emphasis for best practices in large-scale software development, such as unit testing, also resonates with me.
22`I have built a complex JavaScript library with more than a dozen users worldwide, used Python to analyze gigabytes of data at an internship, and served as a teaching assistant for C++ courses for over a year. With my technical skills and ability to learn more, I really hope to make a difference here at Twitter!
Besides my TA and internship experience mentioned in the Work Experience section, I've been building a JavaScript animation library called Manim.js, inspired by famous YouTuber 3Blue1Brown's animation tool, manim. I've used this tool to visualize linear algebra and graph theory concepts, and uploaded these videos to my YouTube channel, which now boasts more than 1,000 subscribers—3Blue1Brown even tweeted my channel this March! I've been constantly improving on my tool, adding features like draggable elements to expedite the video-making process. I've also interacted with several users from around the world, one of whom helped restructure my code massively. The repository currently has more than 10 thousand lines of code.
</em>
22`Right after I applied to another 2 companies, Slack and Dropbox, on 8/23 night I suddenly received a rejection letter from Facebook, which didn’t even give me a chance to interview. At a time when my fight hasn’t even begun, this is a quite discouraging event that warns me of the difficulty of job applications.
21`I lied on the bed for one and half hours in despair and numbness, thinking about how I might end up with no offers—maybe even no interviews—and have to continue a master’s degree at Vanderbilt, about whether there’s anything wrong with my decision to graduate early, my dismissal of counseling agencies, my friends’ suggestions, my resume, my own life plans…
22`Then, I talked to my referrer 478, who explained that I’m not alone and that this year, many Chinese seniors with no prior FB internship are rejected immediately. He encouraged me and said that with my abilities, I can surely enter Google or Microsoft. At the crossroad of my life, should I choose hope or should I choose safety? Well, had I received the rejection letter several hours earlier, when I’ve not applied to more companies, I might be able to change my graduation date back, but now…
21`Well, maybe things aren’t that bad. I’ve been contacted by Northwestern and Vanderbilt graduate admission officers (and also some other Wild Chicken colleges). Northwestern just sent me detailed instructions on how to apply, with a personalized message from the AO. At a time when I am numbly applying to software companies without considering whether I’ll like the job, would I go back to the grad school path? After all, I wouldn’t have chosen to look for jobs if it wasn’t for my progress in Leetcode…
