D5P235-190824
41`On 8/24 morning, I met a 2023er from Guangzhou, 293 (here “2” is pronounced “Liang” because of her surname); I lead her to Kissam for breakfast and later to Cohen to study. She was a pre-dental/pre-med but after thinking about her life path for a summer, decided to transfer to CS and added my WeChat on 8/17; she got to know me from my presentation on 6/13 (D5P221). After asking me a lot of questions, on 8/20 she invited me to have lunch together and we talked intermittently throughout the week.
34`I later played soccer with my friends, but I soon started to feel a burning chest and my head turned numb and cold, so I had to go home. But it seems that running can indeed help reduce my muscle twitching; at night when I slept, I didn’t feel much twitching and I wasn’t used to this, so I felt like my heart stopped…
12`Recently I’ve gotten into a strange shuati bottleneck. I am stuck on a consecutive 7 problems, most of which are 2D DP problems that I’m still struggling with. Why could I solve 6 Mediums in 3 to 4 hours on some days, but can hard solve one Medium in 3 hours now?
13`In the new semester, when learning something new, I can feel an obvious change in my approach and attitude, thanks to 300 hours of shuati. Most prominently, I try to digest the concept into long-term memory when doing homework.
13`When shuati-ing, one strategy I repeatedly used to deeply understand an algorithm, especially a difficult one, is to stretch my time spent on it to several weeks or even months, when I would think about it at the back of my head. This way, the algorithm is imprinted in my memory.
13`Also, when I see a not-so-straightforward math theorem, I will reflexively construct an example and reason through it to see if it makes sense. Proving a math claim has a lot of similarities to solving coding problems!
13`Inspired by the 3b1b video entitled “This problem seems hard, then it doesn’t, but it really is,” and combined with my own experience, I learned a lot of lessons about problem-solving when shuati-ing.
13`First is the danger of fixed mentality. For Prob. 15 (3-sum), I’ve spent over a month trying to understand and implement the fizzbuzzed.com solution, but the side effect is that it made me reflexively think in that direction whenever I saw similar problems. I later saw an entirely different approach and realized how I restricted my line of sight.
13`Second is the difficulty of a problem. As 3b1b said, “even if [the solution] seems obvious in hindsight, you have to ask, given the vast space of possible things you might consider, why would anyone’s mind ever turn to that particular idea?”
13`For many problems where I solved by looking at the solution, I skipped this crucial step of exploration, resulting in the “reciting the solution” trap that hinders creativity on new problems. Many times, it’s equally important to develop a feel for what methods NOT to use when given a problem.
13`However, the caveat is that for some problems, if you explore without knowing a particular approach (such as 2D DP, the method I am learning recently), exploring is actually a waste a lot of time. There is no way to tell when you should start from the solution and when you should start from the problem.
13`Third is the steps of problem solving. On 8/26 I solved Prob. 1151, one of my favorite problems; I started from simple examples and gradually found a pattern that paved way for a simple algorithm. Indeed, “the first step with any puzzle is to play around and get a feel for it, and it’s always good to start simple and slowly get more complicated from there… mind you, it can take some time to draw out many examples and think it through.”
13`Fourth is the utility of solving problems. As I said before, I did encounter real data structure problems in my research, which matches what 3b1b says: “Sure, these kinds of puzzles are contrived, but they carry lessons relevant to useful problems you may actually need to solve one day.”
14`Also, I’ve been kind of treating solving interview problems as some preparation for a contest like the IMO, or just a hobby like chess.
