D5P238-190902
32`Now, my daily routine consists of EBI breakfast, Grill for lunch, and 2301 for dinner. I usually take food home for lunch and dinner, unless I meet good friends at Rand. At breakfast, I sometimes see people I’m loosely familiar with, and that’s the most embarrassing thing: should I sit with them or not? Will they sit with me or not?
34`My stomach is often overloaded with food (in stark contrast to '18 Fall), except at the end of each Math 3320 class (since it ends at 13:00) when I’ll feel hungry.
11`For Math 3320, I really like the teaching style of Dr. John Rafter, as he is skilled in interacting with students to help us discover concepts ourselves. For the course itself, it’s interesting to see how people use existing math frameworks to develop a rigorous system of theory for a practical field. Right now, my brain hurts and wanders away for 2/3 of the time when I try to understand concepts, but I know that this inefficiency is a necessary step of learning when I am not familiar with the knowledge structure.
13`I doubt whether any of the cryptography concepts will ever be useful in my future work. Sometimes, I think the point of college is not all about gaining knowledge, but rather gaining more experience in learning itself. In other words, we learn knowledge, but more importantly, we learn study skills. This is the opinion of 329 as well.
11`On 9/4 we had our first CS 3270 quiz. It only made up 1% of the grade, so I didn’t care much. Before the quiz, the professor reiterated that he will be focusing on the historical contributions of languages, but the content of the quiz turned out drastically different. I absolutely hate this kind of quiz and professor!
22`On 9/4 night, I contacted 462 (who works at FB, as mentioned in D5P175), told her about my rejection, and asked her for advice; she said I may as well apply again to an internship, and just as I was wondering what to say to ask politely for a referral, she mentioned herself that she could refer me, and asked for my resume.
22`Looking at my resume, she gave me a ton of advice on how I should improve it, from the perspective of a tech recruiter. I originally thought my resume is revised many times, so there’s nothing to improve on, but that’s not the case; many of her advice are actually very useful for me! As she kept on talking, I kept thinking to myself, how lucky am I to have met such a nice person?!
22`I then made a drastic revision to my resume, adding my preferred name in the title, shortening my TA description to make room for another coding project, and putting my research intern experience at the beginning. For the prompt, 462 shared her response with me—I cried after seeing this…
<em>
“Why do you think your referral should be hired? Include anything you know about their skills, work experience, and past projects relevant to the position(s) they would be considered for. (If applicable, include any time constraints this person is under).”
22`Jazon is a skilled coder, a fast, detail-oriented learner, and a great person to work with. He has a solid foundation on all the important programming concepts such as data structures, recursion, algorithms, time and space complexity, etc., and he also has had experience interning as a software engineer researcher at a Vanderbilt research lab.
22`At Vanderbilt University, Jazon and I worked alongside one another as teaching assistants for the course Program Design and Data Structures. To be selected as a TA for this class, you had to have had have excellent communication skills and a very thorough understanding of the material so that you are able to explain the concepts to the students when they come to you for help during office hours. You also have to be very good at debugging in order to grade programming assignments, (we had to fix each of the students' mistakes before moving on to grade the rest of their assignment).
Absolutely reach out to him to begin the interview process. He would do very well as an intern at Facebook.
</em>
