D5P241-190909
32`The weather in Nashville is ridiculous this September, with high at 35+ °C for almost every day from 9/10 to 9/17, at a time when the leaves are already beginning to turn yellow. The huge difference in the temperature and humidity between indoors and outdoors caused many people to get sick.
22`On 9/10, 139 was interviewed by FB; the problem was subset sum. On 9/10 night I attended the Engineering SLAM. It didn’t turn out a pleasant experience, as I felt quite unwell in the crowded, humid environment, so I acted awkwardly when handing my resume to the Microsoft employer. I then applied online, but honestly, I don’t even expect getting an interview now.
14`In the past ~10 days, my motivation was very low because my job prospects are grim and course load is light. As I was informed that FB probably won’t consider my re-application and I expect I’ll receive no interviews in future from other companies as well, my main goal slowly transitions to entering a top CS Master’s program, which makes me feel like I don’t need to do much this semester.
21`Researching the internship and job opportunities for Masters and PhDs, I know that my data structures practice efforts didn’t go in vain—ML and AI jobs usually requires solid foundations in coding and algorithms. When I enter grad school, I shouldn’t be so reckless in terms of job applications… Give me two more years, I’ll nail a better position at a Big 4!
14`While my self-positioning and life plans is a complete mess in the past one month, so is my life attitude. When I’m desperate, I feel not motivated doing anything and regret my previous decisions of pushing myself—that is the reason for my energy depletion; I desperately desire an intimate relationship and getting out of this town. Every day someone calls me a dashen—what use does that make? I’m still failing in the end.
14`On the other hand, when I’m given hope, I enter an excited state like in '18 Spr, when I’m filled with confidence and determined to excel in the coming several years. I have established a firm reputation as a CS dashen in my grade in just 2 years—what can’t I achieve? What, no lover? No problem! Remember how I resisted an intimate relationship back in March 2018, when I was super determined in my studies? And also during much of the previous summer, I achieved optimal learning state in almost complete isolation.
22`On 9/11 I attended the career fair. I talked with Amazon Robotics, and asked Amazon if I can apply to internships (the recruiter says he doesn’t know…). Then I spent 1 hour in line for Microsoft (although I already handed two copies of my resumes, so they now have 3 copies…)
22`I explained my project experience quite fluently, although I didn’t get to talk in as much detail as I expected. The recruiter (her name is Mimi or something?) finally says that I will hear back from Microsoft in about 1~2 weeks. I look forward to that, although now I won’t feel sad if they reject me outright.
31`Today (9/11) I told 493 (who’s been sitting beside me for most of the time in Math 3620) that I’m mainly aiming for grad school now; she encouraged me and told me that she’s actually not returning to FB.
41`After the 1st AI quiz on 9/12, 495 invited me to Starbucks and we studied together in Central Library for about 5 hours. This scenario sounds very similar to last Saturday, but the difference is that we two studied quietly most of the time. When we talked, we discussed grad school application and our future life paths.
41`Since we take 3 overlapping classes, 495 has sought help from me several times this semester, and often regards me as a dashen, finding various ways to compliment me whenever I help her out. 495 didn’t go to the Career Fair yesterday, and is determined to go to grad school.
41`Once, 495 said that she wants to return to China after a PhD, and I expressed the same thought. She’s commented that our interests and goals highly overlap, and in case I fail Microsoft, we will surely be comrades fighting for grad school.
31`On 9/15 morning CHIA gathered together at Cavier & Bananas to celebrate 982’s 20th birthday. We later decided to go to Miami for Thanksgiving.
11`At night I, 495, and 468 cracked the hell out of the AI extra credit assignment, and it’s a pretty useful experience as I read a paper on this topic.
