D5P243-190917
12`On 9/17, 983 invited me to a Google tech talk about life at Google; this event was supposed to be for Women in Computing members, so there weren’t many boys there. I asked Sam if I can apply to internships, and he directed me to a Google recruiter, who replied to my email in just 20 minutes—Google recruiters are always so nice!
22`The recruiter says that if I apply to an internship, in my resume I need to explicitly state that I’m attending grad school after graduation—holy crap, if I had known this during my second application to FB, will I not be rejected again? (The rejection was on 9/16, right before I planned to send an email to FB clarifying my situation. I told 462 about it on 9/20, and she again gave me a lot of encouragements and suggestions.)
22`The two hosts say that Google don’t use robots to filter resumes and instead employ humans, who spend about 15 seconds scanning through each resume to decide whether the candidate passes or not. Now I understand why I need emphasis on my resumes!
22`At night, I contacted 487 (I mentioned her in D5P202), who agreed to refer me. For the referral letter, I partly duplicated what 462 wrote—I don’t think they will detect this similarity since I’m applying to Google now…?
22`On 9/18 I received 487’s referral; several hours later, I received a rejection for my winter internship application (I applied in early September), which frightened me since I thought this would invalidate the referral for my summer intern application. Fortunately, this is not the case, as the referral will be effective for 30 days for any job I apply to.
14`As my friends receive interviews, it’s hard to keep a long-term perspective on my life. On 9/12 when I and 983 were practicing, I felt so bad about not receiving an interview that I had to stop coding. (Likewise, 983 felt really bad when I told her about 139’s interview with FB, since she didn’t hear back from FB at the time.)
21`My parents have assured me that if I graduate as a CS PhD, I will have a far brighter future than being a coder. And they are absolutely correct. On 9/24 I heard about how a Facebook engineer ended his life at the age of 38, under the tremendous pressure from the manager and workplace politics. This reinforced my determination to get a higher degree, and teaches me that the environment in big techs is not as good as I imagined, especially as I grow older.
21`In the next few days, I spent some time reading through people’s reactions on YouTube and Zhihu, and read about Chinese coders’ dull life in California—especially their toxic friend circle where everyone just talks about how giant or company is, how expensive their house is, or how prestigious their children’s school is.
12`On 9/19, as I almost completely give up on job search—I absolutely hate chasing after recruiters or fill out applications—my determination to become a leader in technology, instead of a passive coder, grows.
14`Being obsessed with making leaps as quickly as possible is a good tactic to motivate myself, but it’s not a good life strategy. One reason I wished to graduate early was because I felt too depressed in the same environment. But being in the same place turns out not to be a bad thing.
31`On 9/21 the CHIA group went to Steam Boys; this is the first time I went out of campus for more than a kilometer in the 5 weeks since school started, but partly due to the beautiful scenery of my 10th floor dorm, I didn’t feel confined at all.
14`In weeks 5 and 6 I had a lot of work, so my efficiency is not too bad. However, my determination for grad school is in general very weak, and there are several reasons. first, there aren’t many people taking the same path with me, except for 982, 495, and 474. My biggest support for this path, my parents, only talk to me once a week and they sort of give me more pressure than support.
14`Second, I have yet to transition my mindset from job search (in D5P230-190726 I was saying “forget about grad school”); after all I’ve spent about 350 hours preparing for interviews. I haven’t established a momentum in a certain research field—I don’t even know where to start.
14`I should now be searching for the field I love the most, a specific field in AI or ML that I love so much that I will be able to immerse myself completely into it, like I did when learning data science in 2018 summer or algorithms in 2019 summer.
21`982 has suggested that I work for a startup for 1.5 years and then either transfer to a big tech or go for a master degree. I replied that I severely distrust small companies since I highly risk wasting time doing meaningless things. In addition, I have developed a heavy reliance on the Chinese community, and will not survive if I enter a startup if I’m the only Chinese there. On the other hand, 979 has suggested that I look for tech jobs in China, which of course is a terrible idea if I only have a bachelor’s degree.
22`On 9/30 Microsoft rejected me. This is completely within my expectation, so I didn’t feel too bad. When I heard that 139 is rejected without interviews as well, I spoke dirty words on WeChat for the first time, since this is so unreasonable.
