D5P245-190926
11`Our coursework exploded in this week: Math 3320 Problem Set 3 and AI Project 1 are both ridiculously hard and require maybe 15+ hours each. On 9/23 we had our Math 3620 exam 1. I scored 96 while class average is ~78.
41`495 survived with the help of my powerful formula sheet, and she thanked and praised me profusely. In the past 7 days (now is 9/27), I and 495 have been talking super frequently. We sometimes study together—I feel very comfortable studying with her, since she’s quite focused and we can discuss our courses and future plans.
11`I struggled a lot with the 3320 homework over the weekend; as before, I can only concentrate for a small proportion of the time because of the obscurity of concepts. I spent 3 hours tackling a proof problem but to no avail.
11`It turns out that all of my classmates—133, 139, 983, 469, 698—are struggling too, and according to 469, so are the smartest American students or even people taking this course in other colleges. The entire class just exploded! My progress on the homework was actually one of the fastest among my peers, as fast as 983.
22`On 9/27, Mom, who’s just met Dr. X from Georgia Tech last week, says she wants me to apply to his PhD position. The next night, Mom called me and criticized me for not paying much attention to the application. She urged me to stop the Miami trip since it happens before the due date of PhD application.
21`I was confused by why she was dissatisfied with my progress on PhD application, since I’ve been primarily aiming at the master’s program at CMU and then Google. Mom says that she wants me to go for a PhD, not a “useless” master’s degree.
21`Mom just discussed this with Dad, and assures me that I’ll have a bright future if I become a student of Dr. X. She says that the family will buy me a car and a house (using the money spared from 1 year of college tuition) and even settle in Atlanta if I succeed in getting into his lab.
22`This instilled a powerful motivation in me that I haven’t felt for over a month! I began reading Dr. X’s recent papers; Mom advises me to read only those published in the past 3 years since a professor’s research interests changes with time. This is the first time I ever try to do specific PhD research, and I almost immediately got immersed into reading papers!
22`Most of Dr. X’s recent papers are about developing mathematical models or computer algorithms to solve a variety of manufacturing problems. There are also papers about specific industry problems that are more physics and experimental, and I’m not interested about that.
22`I feel comfortable reading through many of these papers, since I’m very familiar with the basic concepts in linear algebra, statistics, and algorithms. I’m impressed by the wide range of mathematical or CS techniques used—the professor is so versatile! Also, my parents have respectively taken me to several factories (Volkswagen, Gree, …) so I have at least some knowledge about manufacturing as well.
22`One of the papers is somewhat similar to my research project in the summer. Mom says that professors like Dr. X need CS + Math people just like me!
21`Many of Dr. X’s previous PhD students went on to become professors, while the others became senior engineers in big manufacturing firms.
21`495 cautions me that life can be tough under Chinese advisors. Since that’s what many people say, I need to make sure I don’t overwork under Dr. X, or get into mental problems because of repressive orders.
