D5P247-191004
22`On 10/3, after the 2nd AI midterm, I quickly finished my letter to Dr. X, which briefly talked about my academic interests and abilities, and my summer research experience. This passage serves as a good starting point for my SoP.
21`On 10/5 morning I and Mom respectively sent out an email to Dr. X, and he replied that he’s no longer accepting new students for this year. A German student beat me by some time, but no worries!
22`After reading through all those life stories of Bay Area programmers, the prospect of graduating with a ML PhD and earning half a million a year instilled a powerful motivation and confidence in me, and I formally decide to quit SWE job hunting now.
22`474 has already found recommenders and started working on PhD applications—now he’s just filling out personal information, and will complete the other parts later.
21`On 10/7 I visited the Career Center and asked for grad school advice. The coach only provided some very generic suggestions such as networking. I expected them to help me compile a choice of promising schools and help me fill out applications like Next Level Consulting did for my college application, but now it seems likely that I have to do these on my own.
14`The tremendous excitement about competing in ICPC (see D5P249) naturally makes me wonder: how can I achieve the same sort of desire for grad school, at a time when my motivation for the PhD path is still low and only accumulating quite slowly?
13`As mentioned before, one reason is a lack of community. I am surrounded by people applying to SWE at big techs, or consulting/business positions, as well as companies helping people get jobs, and notifications from r/cscareerquestions and Medium… Apart from 495, 474, and 982 and 026, I don’t know of many people who are taking the same path as me.
14`How can I find a field that I love so much I would immerse myself in it for 4 years, with a state similar to this summer? At a time when I seem to only care about “getting the applications done,” I don’t know if it’s necessary to ponder on this question now, or should I start to care about this after being accepted.
14`I keep saying I’m interested in linear algebra and algorithms, but last semester I actually had a pretty painful time learning them. I said that once I know enough about a subject, I can start to love it, but learning anything in-depth will surely be painful.
14`To stimulate myself for applications, I can think about the exciting things I can do as a researcher. Although my summer was pretty dull, the life of other PhD students in my lab is quite colorful. They traveled frequently to different places to attend conferences, and can meet very smart, intellectual people who are experts at their fields.
14`If I’m intensely driven by ICPC, why not motivate myself with the goal of publishing a first-author paper on a top-tier conference? Of course, this is hard when I don’t even know what it’s going to involve, so maybe start searching for relevant people on Zhihu?...
22`On 10/9, I talked to 472, a Vandy alum who is interning at Facebook AI as a ML master’s student at CMU. He offered me a lot of information about applying to grad school—he got rejected for all PhD applications except Vandy! He says that it’s much harder to apply to PhD than a master’s program.
22`This is weird, since I looked up CS PhD admission rate at Cornell, Northwestern, Duke, and they range from 10 to 17%; CMU MSML only admits 4% students. But according to him, despite this, I probably won’t succeed in PhD apps. Well, so now I can maintain a more “Buddhist” attitude when applying to PhD’s, despite pressure from Mom.
21`I’m excited by the opportunities I will have if I take 472’s path—get a master’s degree and then work as an AI-oriented SWE by 2021 summer. The path to PhD is risky, and although the school will provide financial support for a master’s degree in the first 2 years, many say that 4 years are lost for accumulating wealth compared to master’s graduates.
