D5P248-191010
<h2>“Path to AI” Special</h2>
[h3]【1】Background
14`During September, as my job search failed, I had a painful time as I transitioned from SWE to ML. During this transition, I had no clear life goals, and so I was aimless, inefficient, vulnerable, and unhappy. My pain dissipated as I began to actively research my life path after the 1st round of mid-terms ended on 10/9. Since then, my life becomes fulfilling again as my horizon broadens rapidly.
14`Before, I was bombarded with how to solve more Leetcode problems by my peers. Now, I am constantly reminded of the importance of publishing papers and getting recs. I was desperate to achieve short-term success 2 months ago, but now I feel natural to focus on long-term rewards.
22`I actively searched on Zhihu for CS grad school application results and advice, and read many posts by ML researchers and engineers. I binged on CMU’s grad application website for instructions, and researched the differences between CS programs from different universities. I searched on big tech companies’ career pages for opportunities for MS/PhD graduates, as well as their responsibilities. I read sample personal statements, and am amazed by the research experiences of dashens—my research experience pales compared to theirs!
22`This Diary about my future plans does more than helping me maintain motivation and mental health. It’s essential for helping myself prepare for the SoP as well. What is my “objective in pursuing this field”? Why am I well-suited for it? What more should I do to achieve it? Let’s explore.
[h3]【2】What do ML people do?
12`In 2018, I watched tons of AI-related videos on YouTube. Carykh uses AI to do interesting projects such as replicating human voice, composing jazz, and producing dance moves. Code Bullet uses ANN and other ML techniques to play games. Welch Labs explains how to develop methods that enable computers to recognize fingers from images, and to steer a vehicle. 3b1b explains how AANs categorizes handwritten digits in the MNIST dataset…
12`The uses of AI presented in these videos, especially CB, are more on the entertainment side, and seem to be quite different from how AI is applied in the industry. For example, Facebook uses AI to improve friend-suggestion algorithms, improve advertisement feeds, and provide translation tools.
13`(Speaking of these YouTube channels, spending time watching them is good, but it’s after all inside my comfort zone, and watching videos is of little use besides mental benefits, because outputs trump inputs.)
21`Before 2018, I would be interested in applying ML techniques to build smarter cities and transportation systems. However, after experiencing what research really is like, I find that sometimes, technologies described in sci-fi movies or documentaries aren’t being developed at all. My ambition before entering Prof. Work’s lab was gradually disillusioned as I worked on things that have little to do with my envisions of better transportation systems, i.e. AoT nodes.
21`As another example of the gap between sci-fi and cutting-edge research, there is a lot of research dedicated to NLP, but we seem to be nowhere near a fully functioning “simultaneous interpretation” (同声传译) device (for example in the Wandering Earth).
[h3]【3】MS vs PhD
21`With the prevalence of packages, machine learning has become easier than ever. As I said during my summer research, applying those ML packages is ridiculously easy. Some people even say that you don’t need any math at all to become a ML engineer.
21`If it is the case that MS graduates just know how to apply packages, whereas PhD’s are those who work on the real core of these algorithms, does it make a PhD degree vastly superior? Some people say no, but in terms of concrete salary stats, PhD graduates seem to be indeed preferred.
22`In terms of the chances of admissions, my hope of directly getting into a top PhD program is slim, since I severely lack research experience (compared to, for example, 482). I will need to have a lot of ML-related publication and worked closely with several professors to be admitted to a top program.
22`I saw a person on 1point3acres that has 3 first-author papers, and the comments are that he can “only” get into a ranked 5~10 PhD program.
22`However, I do have a shot at master’s programs at my 5 top choice schools (in order of preference): Stanford, CMU, Columbia, GT, and UChi. Well, my GPA is at the top 2% in VUSE and my CS/math courses are all A, who will they admit if they don’t admit me? I’ve seen bad results from good applicants, but they come from 985 and have a disadvantage compared graduates from US colleges.
22`I am applying to MS programs at these schools since I can’t get into their PhD. However, this choice becomes more difficult when it comes to schools like Northwestern. I’m very interested in NU’s MSAI program, but they say I should apply to PhD if it’s my eventual goal. Most other schools also say that MS programs should not be considered a springboard for PhDs. (What? So the only time I can do research is during undergraduate?)
22`MIT does not offer CS master’s programs. Some schools such as Cornell discourage contacting specific profs; their policy is to choose a professor at the end of the 1st year. Other schools such as Northwestern emphasize researching its faculty and choosing one whose research you identify with the most.
[h3]【4】Comparison of grad school programs
22`There is a lot of variation in grad school programs in terms of requirements and outcome orientation. Although I think ML fits my interests the best, there are only a few ML programs, so I’ll be applying mainly to CS. There are also some data science programs that have ML elements, such as Harvard and USC.
22`Needless to say, CMU is the leader of ML and CS in the world. Its MSCS program is much more career-oriented, while MS in ML and CV are a little more research-oriented as many graduates stay in CMU for PhD, and admitted students often have pubs.
22`ML is a very new field, and CMU is the first school to launch a MSML and MSCV program (and also B.S. in AI). CMU has the most specialized CS programs; almost all other schools only have CS programs, with further specializations within CS. Indeed, many ML/AI job/intern openings just put a CS degree as requirement.
22`Generally, there aren’t many research-oriented CS MS programs; most MS programs are more career-oriented, especially M.Eng. programs. For example, many people on 1p3a are enrolled in MSCS at UCSD. They are surrounded in a Leetcode-y environment and have pretty good career prospects. Schools such as GT also offer online CS master programs, targeting current industry workers.
22`CMU’s Software Engineering program has sent a number of emails and even a letter to me, but I later learned that 2 years of work experience is required at the time of application.
