D5P251-191014
<h2>Recommendation Letters</h2>
22`On 10/15, I asked Prof. Doug Hardin and Prof. Jerry Roth for recommendation. Dr. Hardin agreed to work on it during Week 14 (which would be pretty late actually…). 495 said that apart from me and her, two other seniors have asked him for rec. To my relief, they will study math and finance respectively, so will not be my direct competition. This somehow gives me a feeling of both superiority and loneliness.
22`Dr. Roth asked me if I’m applying to PhD or MS; when I said I’m applying to both, he said they are two separate things and didn’t recommend me to try both.
22`Knowing that the rec from Prof. Work will be of critical importance—possibly outweighing my 5,000-hour effort on GPA—I spent much time reflecting very deeply on my 200 hours of summer research experience, basically scrutinizing every single detail of what I did (and didn’t do). Prof. Work will provide detailed examples of how I carried out independent research. I wrote a letter to him on 10/16:
<em>
22`Dear Professor Work:
22`Thank you again for mentoring me during summer research! As I am applying to PhD and MS programs in CS and machine learning in the next several months, I am writing to request your recommendation, as well as provide some of my reflections on my summer research experience on the AoT dataset.
11`In the first two weeks of my research, I got used to the pandas framework and played with smaller data sets. Then, I spent the 3rd to 6th Weeks productively, as I scaled up my analysis to the entire 204 GB dataset, and gathered a lot of information about the availability, accuracy, and trend of the data. This work wasn’t directly related to our goal of outlier detection, but it laid the grounds of our later work.
11`By the 7th week, I’ve done most analysis I could with the AoT data, and was a little frustrated by the unreliability of many sensors. As the team began to run the tensor algorithm, I experimented with different ways to prefilter data values that may interfere with the algorithm, as well as various values of the sparsity parameter “lambda,” and recorded the results. In the final week, I compiled a 2,700-word report about my findings.
11`At my final presentation, you asked me what new, original insights I gained from my research. I couldn’t say much since most of what I did was, after all, analyzing and visualizing data, and sometimes probing the sensor hardware.
11`I did spend much time trying to understand the tensor factorization algorithm, and have some vague insights about how it should be applied to our dataset. For example, I discussed with my team why I thought it made more sense to zero-center the data by rows instead of columns (section 6 of my AoT Report). However, this wasn’t a great contribution to the core algorithm.
11`Although it’s hard for me to participate in developing the algorithm, I think what I could have done better might be to read more papers on the topic so that I can provide better context for our research.
11`I remember that you said you want to train me into a researcher: when we met in Week 1, you strongly encouraged me to make decisions about our research direction, instead of just preprocess the data. In this regard, I know I didn’t meet up to your expectations somewhat; however, research is hard, and there’s still much to learn for me.
13`My greatest takeaway from this research internship, apart from gaining experience with data analysis and machine learning, is a deeper understanding of how research works. Some types of research are “problem-oriented”, i.e. given a problem, try to find a solution. Our AoT research project, on the other hand, was “method-oriented”—given an algorithm, apply it to a new problem.
22`I hope that my performance during summer and my reflections in this letter have shown my promise for research in grad school. If you agree to recommend me, could we schedule a time to meet so that I can provide additional information about my experience and interests? Thank you for your valuable time!
22`finally, please feel free to contact me if there are data science related projects in your lab; I’ll be more than happy to contribute :)
</em>
22`Prof. Work is really nice; he provided a lot of suggestions about application, and said that I’ll get to see my letter. Admissions people only take about 30 seconds to read through a letter, and he wants to write a strong letter for me that capture 5 minutes of attention from them.
22`My interactions with Prof. Work: I was his student in the transportation class. When I applied to his lab, I received an initial coding assessment and did well on it (I analyzed AoT data using Python and visualized results using JavaScript); 491 praised my performance.
22`My interactions with Prof. Hardin: I was the youngest but the most active student in his class (note: I was active partly because the linear algebra concepts were still fresh in my mind, compared to upperclassmen). For our final project, I did an impressive presentation on ANN, explaining the core concepts and showing a demo of how it applies to MNIST.
22`My interactions with Prof. Roth: I hope that Prof. Roth emphasize my skills and interest in data structures. I scored well when taking CS-2201. I was selected as one of the youngest TA for CS-2201 in 2018 Fall, and same for CS-3251 in 2019 Spring. I achieved these even though I was only exposed to CS after entering college. For CS-2201 TA, I was knowledgeable when tutoring other students at office hours, and found a subtle bug in his well-developed test program when grading test 3: it was a very special edge case. Also mention ICPC.
22`On 10/22, Prof. Roth let me send him reminder emails 2 weeks before the first deadline, and then once every day in the final week. He is really busy this semester and says he’ll probably not finish the letter until the deadline is up. He advised me to be specific for PhD apps and general for MS apps.
