D5P253-191020
22`Since I basically finished my coursework on 10/19 (when I studied with 026 and 982 all day), I worked on improving my SoP. I feel satisfied about my future planning paragraph: intern in the industry and then go back for a PhD, since I think it’s pretty realistic and showing my future plans is important. However, some say that if you are too specific about the life path, you risk being considered unfit for this program. Still others say that your SoP doesn’t matter much.
14`Now, I’m mainly motivated by the environment I created for myself, and my future prospects.
22`Recently, many of my deficiencies in communication skills emerged. first, I should have sent my ELR YouTube series to Prof. Hardin earlier this semester; it’d be excellent (though not as important as research) if he could show my videos to class? Oh, I really don’t know how to sell myself.
22`Second, I didn’t quite know what to do after Prof. Roth failed to reply my email sent 10/17. Third, on 10/16, 489 declined again that I could view the AoT paper, and I was like okay... In retrospect I should have asked her for access; I was one of the authors, after all. Also, although they agreed to let me participate in paper writing, they didn’t notify me anything while I didn’t ask them to let me join, either.
14`Thinking about how to handle these things consumes much of my energy, and I would tend to just forget about the problem. This would be fatal in the workforce!
21`On 10/21, a sophomore named dty invited me to lunch. He’s interested in ML (like 271) and wants to pursue a PhD. He took AP CS in 10th Grade and came in with 50 AP credits, and has worked at a medical lab and published papers. This is pretty impressive, and I will have no chance of competing against him if we’re in the same grade.
24`On 10/21 afternoon I helped 979 debug her python homework, and after an hour we found it’s because of the confusion about the coordinate system (the y-axis is inverted). We then had a deep conversation, and her insights greatly inspired me.
24`First, she says that when she went to California, the environment is completely different. There is a heavy tech vibe and a good concentration of intelligent people. This caused me to reevaluate my choice of going to Vandy for college—our world is comparatively small here. I’m now stimulated to apply to grad schools in California. Remember how Philip Guo was able to sell his project ideas at UCB just by driving there from Stanford? Location is important!
22`Second, she looked at my resume and offered a lot of criticisms. Her first impression is that my page is too empty—there is a lot of whitespace and the font is rather large; this would give recruiters an impression that I don’t have too much experience—overall impression matters more than contents. She also says I didn’t offer anything special in my TA description; people know that I will grade homework and attend office hours! 979 says that she revised her resume dozens of times.
24`979 greatly resonated with me when I said I felt hopeless during September and that I squeezed everything I could from my internship to put on my profile even though I didn’t do that much. She also encouraged me to reply again to the Lazada recruiter since he might have forgotten about the email. At night I made another drastic revision to my resume.
21`On 10/24 I spent some time with zrd, who told me about some American CS dashens such as David and Ohm, some of which declined MIT offers to come to Vandy. Ohm received “Redefine Expectations” assessment in his FB internship this summer, giving him a $13k monthly bonus!
31`At night I studied with 026, who’s working on GRE Math Subject Test—it’s a really hard and comprehensive test! I then studied with 495 for 3 hours, and registered for a 11/12 GRE test.
