D5P256-191101
11`Math 3620 exam 2 took place on 11/4, and I got 94. The test isn’t very intellectual; it’s almost entirely arithmetic computations, and conceptual questions can be answered by copying from the formula sheets.
41`Before the test, I sent my cheat sheet to 495 on 11/1, and during 11/2~4, she asked me about 14 questions on the materials. I was at times bothered by her unremitting inquiries, but paradoxically also grew emotionally reliant on them, especially since 495 often praises me (she even called me her idol!) We also discussed a lot of personal plans or values, and on 11/3 she welcomed me to Chengdu during winter break!
42`495 is never afraid of bothering me (maybe since I always show friendliness and reply to her rather quickly). I, on the other hand, am often afraid of bothering others when asking questions or communicating in general.
24`Although I really want to praise 495 as well, it’s hard because I’m on the position of helping her most of the time. Should I find ways to compliment her even if it’s insincere? Maybe not, since that’d be weird. 982, for example, has hardly ever praised me (or others) as a dashen, but that doesn’t prevent me from admiring him and considering his personality to be good.
41`495’s “verbal” skills, however, are vastly superior to mine, and as I prepare for the GRE, I come to understand more about what skills are needed to achieve a high score on verbal and writing without effort, as 495 did.
12`Perhaps the most important skill for the writing test is “divergent thinking” (发散性思维), i.e. creatively generate ideas, reasons, or situations. This requires extensive knowledge and a nimble mind.
12`Learning GRE is a welcome break from the Math/CS courses I take (remember the 15% rule). It’s comparatively more enjoyable because growth is somewhat less painful, and more incremental and conspicuous. As mentioned before, the process of understanding math concepts is like a step function. This growth is more continuous for reciting words or improving writing skills.
12`Despite my years at Rainbow Academy, it’s been 1.5 years since I’ve written or read argumentative essays. One main issue in the last test is I often can’t find words to express an idea, so it’s helpful to familiarize myself with some useful words and phrases in analytical writing.
12`On 11/4, 495 taught me the structure she used for the two writing tasks, which is the standard 5-paragraph structures we’re usually taught. I’m hesitant to apply it since the high score sample essays have very diverse structures. In particular, I don’t know how to quickly write a good introduction, and it seems that raters don’t like a conclusion that just repeats previous claims.
12`For the argument task, I learned to break the article down by identifying backgrounds, assumptions, claims, reasons, and purposes. Although there are 4 different prompts (1. Underlying assumption; 2. Unanswered questions; 3. Further evidence; 4. Alternate explanations), it turns out these are somewhat interchangeable, and essentially asking for the same thing: identifying problems in an argument. I wrote the first practice essay on 11/6, and it gave me a good sense of achievement.
12`To prepare for the issue task, I reviewed the 4 lectures I did on ACT writing, the 16 sample essays I wrote, and my essay in 3-5 Test. They are of such high qualities and I’m reminded of how industrious I was during my GR3 times! It’s actually fairly easy, exciting, and useful to reacquaint myself with the techniques for arguing, such as cause-effect logic chains, metaphors, contrasts, list of examples, and personal stories.
12`The issue task covers a wide range of topics; I’m familiar with topics concerning technology, personal development, history, and (after reviewing ACT essays on arts) arts. Things get a bit complicated when the topic pertains to politics or philosophy.
