D5P258-191108
12`On 11/6~7 I finished 3 untimed verbal tests online. On 11/8 night I finished 2 timed verbal tests. I ran out of time in the first section and I was distracted by the timing, so I solved the questions largely sequentially and forced my brain to run much faster in the second test, although this is quite painful. I eventually scored 160 (as opposed to a 162 when taking an untimed test).
12`I actually only encountered a few words I recited, and the majority of my errors in section 2 occur in reading comprehension (and then my error pattern in section 4 was reversed). This verifies 495’s suggestion (which I previously dismissed) that vocabulary is less important than reading…
12`It’s not that I can’t answer reading problems correctly, but it takes a really long time for me to understand the passages with the required depth.
12`The passages cover a wide range of topics from literature to politics, from biology to astronomy, and often give me a glimpse of how scholarly research is done in these subjects. Comprehending them gives me a satisfied feeling that I’m making up for a lost liberal-arts, well-rounded education.
12`If I have a gut that something’s not right, it’s probably not right and I should mark the question. If I have time left and rechecks that question, it can turn out that when rereading a passage or sentence, I can often discover new clues or understand new connections or recall the meaning of a word.
12`I planned to solve a lot of reading problems on 11/11, but these turn out to be so intense that I must pause for a significant amount of time between practices. At night I finished a verbal practice test, scoring 162, and spent the rest of the time relaxing and watching snow (this year’s snow is unprecedentedly early, and remember 40 days ago it was still 37 °C!)
12`The weather was ridiculously cold on 11/12, the temperature well below freezing point even at noon. Despite the cold, I surprisingly got a 335 on the GRE. Like last time, I encountered 3 verbal tests. I finished all verbal sections with about 5 minutes remaining. I’m pretty sure about the correctness of almost all problems in sections 2 and 4, while in section 6 I was challenged with a lot of unfamiliar words, but still, in general I encountered a lot of words in my word list. Even when there are unidentifiable words, I’ve developed intuitions to guess intelligently.
13`After intense training, I’ve learned to quickly identify the gist of an article and the inherent connections within ideas. Interestingly, I can feel this kind of mental skill, an ability to burn my brain and let ideas connect, playing its role while I try to understand Cryptography concepts in the afternoon. (Recall '18 Spr!) So, learning humanities can inspire science learning as well!
12`Like last time, I did zero math practice but still got full score easily, and I used a portion of math tests to relax (and think about 495). One problem that confused me was about which of two negatively-sloped lines have “greater” slope.
12`The 2 writing prompts were both what I’ve previously thought about. The first was whether leaders should hold up to high ethical standards (359 said he encountered the same prompt). The second was about Palean baskets (the first in pool). I wrote more than 500 words on both essays, and I didn’t apply 495’s model. (eventual score: 4.5, date released: 11/21)
12`Gist of Essay 1: (1) Intro. (2) Politicians should hold up to high personal moral standards so as to serve as a model for the citizens. (3) Transition. (4) Politicians should not consider morality when dealing with inept political opponents, citing the example of Tang Taizong’s coup in 626 AD. (5) In general, an action conducted by a politician might be immoral from one angle, but as long as it’s beneficial as a whole, then we shouldn’t focus excessively on morality. (I didn’t write a conclusion.)
12`Gist of paragraphs in Essay 2: (1) Intro. (2) There might be undiscovered boats. (3) The river may have changed. (4) Someone may have brought the basket to Lithos in recent times. (5) The Lithos basket may be similar to Palean basket by accident. (6) Short conclusion.
