D5P263-191125
33`On 11/25, CHIA arrived at Miami. On the plane I thought, how flat America is! We settled in a hotel called Suites on South Beach, and ate dinner at Havana 1957, and then walked along Lincoln Road. 982 planned much of our trip, and we mostly followed him.
33`Miami is a very different city than Nashville. The air is filled with a smell of the sea, the buildings are dominated by the white color, and the demographics is mainly Hispanic, with most Uber drivers speaking Spanish. After 3+ months of insular school life, I’ve begun to dread the school in a desperate hope for a new environment.
33`On 11/26 we visited Wynwood Walls, and ate at KYU, the most expensive ($31) yet most delicious restaurant I’ve been to for this semester. We spent the afternoon in the Perez Art Museum; while I find Wynwood art vivid, colorful, and creative, I can’t really appreciate most of the art in this museum. I met Sydney (my freshman hallmate) there. At night we ate at a Peruvian restaurant.
33`On 11/27, we visited Vizcaya, an erstwhile private garden that is now a museum. The garden is extremely beautiful and romantic, and there are many Chinese couples here. For lunch, we took a really long time and still didn’t decide where to eat, so we just respectively bought fast food.
33`Another downside of 5 people is that every time we Uber, we have to get XL. 982 previously planned to rent cars for all our travels, as we need to get from the Beach areas to Miami downtown every day, but due to parking and other issues this didn’t realize.
33`In the afternoon, we shopped at many stores in Bayside Marketplace. I became very interested in a yellow-brownish coat; when I wear it, I feel I’m a brand-new person, since I don’t have clothes of this type and color. I later bought a slightly cheaper white jacket for $37. Indeed, changing one’s outfit is a good way to improve charisma! (I’m talking about you, 495…)
33`In the evening we briefly played at the beach, where I and 120 played frisbee. We then ate at an Italian restaurant, which is likely the most expensive dinner I’ve had in my college life (~$60). I need to pay for a fifth of the $100 seafood mix although I dislike seafood and only ate little of it.
32`I learned that body lotion is applied after bathing; I learned to ask the potion of food when ordering; I learned that “how do you want it to be cooked” is asked when I order steaks…
33`On 11/28, we planned to drive to Key West. On the previous night we discussed what to play in Key West, and 982 cautioned us that there are many variables involved and the plan usually won’t work out exactly. When he went to Boston this Fall break, he planned to drive to Maine and even decided on the hotel, but the plan eventually aborted.
33`982 says that Zipcar isn’t a very accountable company (although this is one of our only choices since we’re under 21). On 11/27 night his rental car was suddenly replaced by another one, and the next morning when we went to retrieve the car, it couldn’t start.
33`After 982 made numerous calls, a Zipcar personnel finally came and tried to charge the car’s battery, but it turned out the car couldn’t start not because of the power. After 3 hours of struggling, by noon we figured that the Key West trip had to be cancelled.
33`982 got a $100 refund from Zipcar, and 120 filed a refund request to Airbnb for our original Key West yacht stay. In the afternoon, we took the free trolley to travel around Miami Beach, and I practiced singing songs like Chengdu.
33`On 11/29 noon I stayed at a Cat Cafe and watched cats for an hour. In the afternoon, I accompanied 671 and 120 to the Sephora store, where I watched them try out foundation (粉底), lipsticks, mascara (睫毛膏), etc. I tried out men’s fragrances; both myself and 671 commented that they smell pretty bad, but after a few hours I found that the smell had turned quite pleasant. At night I bought another yellow jacket.
24`From my perspective, when there are 4 people present, it’s easy to maintain a vibrant conversation than when there are, say, 2. But sometimes it’s difficult to make collective decisions (especially regarding where to eat) when there are 4 and especially 5 people.
24`At Nashville, I put on my newly-bought yellow jacket; 671 complimented on me and said that I’m made a step towards a “non-straight-boy.” I replied that I’ll definitely learn more about how to dress myself nicely.
