D5P264-191127
22`On 11/22 I talked to 329 about my Google application. He commented that I wasted 2 applications for my referral; I can apply to SWE at different locations, and may also try out technical product manager roles. On 11/25 I talked to 487, who said that my resume is not yet reviewed (I applied 10 weeks ago!), and based on what she knows, those receiving interviews are mostly MS or PhD students.
21`329 knows a lot about how the workforce is like, both in China and the US. He, 863, and Duke are starting a startup where they plan to introduce a Chinese clothing brand to the US. He says that they want to establish long-term cooperation with a Chinese seller instead of being a temporary middleman focusing on short-term profits.
31`I, 329, and 360 often gather together to study or play, and the two quasi-roommates have offered me strong emotional support. This semester my social life with Americans is minimal; 273 is friendly to me, I once grabbed a meal with Ariel, and I often have breakfast with Sarah and Emily at EBI, but almost none apart from those.
22`On 11/23 and 24, I made drastic changes to the 1st paragraph of my SoP for Stanford, since the template was originally drafted for CMU MSML. I don’t think mentioning AI would be a good strategy for other school’s programs, like Stanford MSCS.
22`On 11/24 and 26, I split my essay into Personal Statement and SoP for UC schools. My diary has provided with me ample materials, and one sentence in my PS is even directly copied from my Diary (D5P200-190321). I submitted my UCLA MSCS application on 11/26.
22`Over the past one month, I’ve been pondering on the validity of my future plans described in my essay for CMU MSML. 472 said it’s pretty good, but I figured that there can be many legitimate criticisms for this “big company research internship and then PhD” path. In particular, if I’m going for a PhD it’d be important to align with a faculty via research at school, which cannot be obtained in a research internship elsewhere.
22`For Stanford’s essay, up until 11/26 I was using this future plan, but then I changed my mind to instead say that my goals are professionally oriented. I won’t die if I mention intentions for PhD, though it seems that Stanford discourages students to see its MS program as a springboard to its own PhD unless the applicant is very strong. For me, I won’t necessarily aim for the PhD at Stanford as my eventual goal.
22`Still, my original plans were just not convincing enough. By now I only have 200 words to write for my research, and because of this severe lack of research experience and ideas about my research interests, it might be presumptuous to say I’m going for a PhD, so I just said I want to become a software engineer. I’ll use the same goal (directly enter industry) for CMU MSCS, and other career-oriented programs.
22`I looked at the LinkedIn profiles of some Chinese students pursuing MSCS at Stanford or CMU. They all have good research experiences in their undergrad times. I also friended and talked to a Princeton MSCS student named Jace on LinkedIn, who said that there are only a few students in the program, and about 80% go to industry while 20% stay for PhD.
22`Indeed, several MSCS program I apply to are small, with only around 5 ~ 20 people: Princeton, UCB, Yale, UChicago. Others are much bigger: GT, Stanford, Columbia, and potentially UCSD? (Its application fee is so expensive…)
22`On 11/27 at 0:29 (Eastern time) I submitted my Stanford application. I planned to submit at 0:05, but then I accidentally noticed a “Uploaded documents must have a top margin of at least one inch.” OMG I almost missed that! Adding a one-inch margin and the program I apply to at the top of my resume made it look quite ugly, but well…
22`On 11/27 I talked to 982 about my application. I said the PhD programs I apply to mostly require no specific faculty interests (Duke, Cornell). He encouraged me to still reach out to the professors. He said that he applied to a dozen medical summer research programs last year but didn’t get into any, and he reflected that the reason is a lack of interpersonal connection.
24`982 says that this semester, he is treating college more as a place to learn about the society than as a place to develop skills. This sorts of coincides with what 698 has said. I’ve repeatedly thought about how she spent the 2019 Spring semester reaching out to alumni in an effort to gain an internship, even if it’s not paid. Learning how to play the game is important.
22`I originally wanted to take the final two weeks of this semester reaching out to professors at Duke, Cornell, etc. With a Buddhist attitude that I will not get in, I can prepare myself for potential future applications without worrying about the outcome. However, it’s already extremely late to “taoci” (套磁)—I should have done this at least as early as when I first contacted Dr. X (D5P245-190926).
