D5P265-191130
22`By 11/29, none of my recommenders have started working on my letters yet, despite my friendly reminders. I hate that UCLA’s deadline is the final day of a 4-day holiday (although it might be not a super big deal if the letters are submitted slightly late); I doubt whether professors even check their work emails during vacation. I didn’t send reminders on Thanksgiving; none of the 3 reminders on Friday was replied.
22`At this time—52 hours before the first deadline, I fear that they won’t submit my letters on time (or even if they did, the letters are written hastily). If so, then it’s really irresponsible on their side since I told them about the deadline 1.5 months in advance.
22`If they couldn’t make it on time, they shouldn’t have made a promise in the first place. Also, I’ve made every effort I could to reflect on my interactions with them and provide materials for the letter, so mine should be easier to write than other students’, right?
22`Despite the anxiety, I must say that grad school application is a very rewarding experience in itself. And I’m generally confident—I’m applying for at least 14 MS programs (including 4 at CMU), and I’ll be more than happy to go to any one of them if admitted. I don’t believe all of them will reject me, no matter the competition.
22`On 11/22 I encountered Prof. Aldroubi in Rand, and he agreed to write a letter for me if I need it. However, I probably won’t need his letter now. My professors finally began working on my letter on 12/1; Prof. Roth submitted 20.5 hours after the UCLA deadline, which hopefully will be fine.
22`The CMU early application deadline is 12/2 11:00. At 12/2 1:00 I found that the application website is broken; this wasn’t fixed until about 8:50 in the morning, after which I promptly submitted. C’mon CMU, aren’t you a world leader on writing good software?
22`I think the essays for MSCS and MCDS are pretty compelling; the essays for MSML and MSCV are slightly weaker since I wrote them 1.5 months ago, when I wasn’t so experienced in essay writing.
22`Again, almost all differences in the essay are in the opening and closing paragraphs, and all are about 640 words long (except for UCLA where there is a 500-word limit).
22`On 12/2 night I worked on the essay for UCB. It took me a long time to find the specific program outline for MSCS, which is not listed in the admissions website.
22`Columbia is one of the few schools on my list that sends me ad emails; in one such email they specifically said that I’m a prospective doctoral student. There are also some other schools that encourage me to apply to their grad programs.
22`On 12/3, 468 (who hasn’t even contacted 3 recommenders) taught me that I can write about my viewpoints on the trend of research in this field; he only wrote about 200 words for research.
22`For PhD applications, I need to specify my research interests in SoP; I said that my research interests include CV, NLP, DL, but I don’t actually have related experience at all, so it seems pretty presumptuous and insincere.
22`On 12/8, as I research UCB’s CS research website, I found a good way to get around this by instead taking a path to CS education, since I have a highly relevant project and am indeed passionate about it. I eventually said my primary interest is “Education” and secondary is AI:
<em>
22`“I have a keen interest in improving the way students learn STEM concepts: I run a YouTube channel that dedicates to explaining and visualizing linear algebra and graph theory concepts, with exquisite visuals. Therefore, I believe that the ACE (Algorithms and Computing for Education) lab is a good fit for my research interest. I am also interested in the core methods of AI, and have a solid foundation in linear algebra, algorithms, and statistics--three subjects that are the basis for machine learning.”
</em>
22`I also included my reflections on the Welch Labs series in the Personal Statement for UCB; I didn’t include this anywhere else. On 12/8 night I submitted Harvard MSCS’s application; they also have a professor doing education-CS research.
22`It’s bad that UCB’s due date is different from other schools’, since I need to spend extra time reminding my recommenders. When I stopped by at Dr. Roth at his office, he said he’ll “try to finish” by tonight.
