D5P266-191203
13`Although 495 relies on me to finish homework, I’ve also been somewhat unconsciously relying on her as well. If it weren’t for her, I would’t have the motivation to finish the 3620 homework before Miami trip, and finish the AI project during the trip.
13`And again, without her inquiries, I would never have thought more deeply about many concepts. It’s no exaggeration to say that the amount I learned from AI and 3620 increased by 25% in the semester because of 495.
14`If in the future I’m admitted by Stanford or CMU, I would view her role in my studies much more positively, but now I tend to view it as useless, at an time when I’m doubting the efficacy of studying and thinking about how I didn’t play the job-hunting game well.
14`495 resonates with me in that by the final year of college, everyone feels that by now studying has little effect on our future, whereas in the first few years we’re much more motivated to learn.
14`As I realized the uselessness of GPA in both jobs and in PhD—the only place it’s useful is MS applications—my faith in hardworking collapses, and so I’m not as motivated as 495 in many aspects in this semester. I don’t write much about coursework in my Diary, and for the first time, I forgot how I did on previous exams.
43`Back in my freshman year, my ideal girlfriend was someone who’s more motivated than me in studies, so if 495 crashed into my life back then, I’ll probably chase her at no costs; now, I’m less sensitive to my ideal girl’s academic skills.
41`On 12/3 afternoon we studied together for 3 hours, and had a pretty good talk. By today, we’ve been talking on WeChat every day for the past 50 days, with only 2 gaps in the past 74 days.
41`By 12/4, she still talks to me very, very frequently (although we don’t see each other often since we’ve both begun to miss classes), and I’ve gotten used to checking my phone regularly. We’ve been talking so much that more and more of our talk is just repeating something we’ve already talked about. She’s been cheering me up every day, and that makes the final week combo much more endurable and even pleasant. We both miss home so much!
41`On 12/5 night, as 495 chatted with me endlessly over WeChat, I started to think, what’s going on? What should I do? Immersed in happiness, I don’t even know what I should think about…
42`On 12/6 night, instead of studying, I spent a lot of time researching how to play in Chengdu in a romantic way. In the past few days, our talk has been very fast paced, and I often find that I could have made the talk more intimate and pleasant in retrospect, so I reflected on what I should say to her in various situations.
42`A month back, when my feelings for 495 was still rather weak, I was just desperate to have a companion because I “lack experience;” after all, I felt like many around me have had plenty of exes during college. But now my attitude is shifting towards a more correct one: once a relationship starts, I should aim to maintain it for as long as possible.
43`On 12/8, I stumbled upon a Diary I wrote (D5P125-180226) about my ideal relationship with 493, and was astonished by how almost everything I said is now fulfilled by 495! By now, I’ve known her temper pretty well: when she’s happy and when her mood is low.
