D5P267-191207
24`On 12/7 after the crypto finals, I had a brief talk with 469 that completely subverted my impression on her. When she asked for my homework solutions 2 months ago, I didn’t think she’s someone I’ll look up to, but just like 698, 979, and 329, it turns out that I underestimated her and she is much more hardworking than I thought.
22`469 began applying to jobs since mid-September, and as mentioned before got many on-site interviews. She once flew to the West Coast three times within a week when there were coursework dues, and was so stressful that she cried. Eventually she received offers from both the finance side and the tech side, including 2 big techs.
22`Like 495, 469 didn’t announce her offers, and now her LinkedIn page description is still “seeking internship”? Now, 469 is still applying to both CS and finance PhD and MS programs, and hope to defer the offers so that she can work for a year and then return to school.
21`Before entering college, 469 has aspired to do research on AI with a specific focus on applications to special education. Upon entering college, she searched through the professors and found that Dr. Kunda’s research is the best fit for her. She contacted Dr. Kunda many times but didn’t get in until the 3rd semester, staying at her lab since then. This summer, she just submitted 3 second-author papers. Next semester she’ll continue doing research with Kunda and Hardin.
22`Because of 469’s close relationship with Dr. Kunda, Kunda reviewed her school list and offered advice about what schools to apply for, as well as information about placement results from previous years.
24`469 has a deeper view of schools than I do. She prefers smaller schools over larger schools in terms of doing research; in particular, she says that she doesn’t quite like CMU since she thinks it’s too big and the abilities of people there fall on a wide spectrum. 469 also talked about the life paths of some Americans she knows.
21`Now that I know my abilities are no match for 469, but generally speaking, I still fall on the more talented side of a spectrum. 464, for example, doesn’t seem to care much about his future when I talk to him. I appear to have started preparing for grad applications earlier than 483 as well. I believe that most of the time, my peers are not as aspirant as I am.
22`On 12/9 I took an afternoon to craft two essays for Princeton. I think they’re quite compelling and show my skills and passion for teaching. I focused on my CS-2201 teaching experience, since I can talk about how to help others conceptually understand CS concepts. I didn’t write about teaching CS-3251, since much more of teaching 3251 is just telling students certain C++ or even homework-specific techniques.
22`For its SoP, apart from the regular customizing the concluding paragraph, I made minor customization when describing Manim.js to fit Princeton’s emphasis on teaching and mentorship. After submitting, I only have two PhD applications left: Northwestern, Columbia. I submitted Northwestern’s on 12/12 night.
