D5P268-191208
14`By now, I’m more and more convinced of the idea that “studying is useless” and that I wasted 2.5 years of college obsessed with coursework. The theme of this semester is “rule of the games.” I severely misunderstood how to take advantage of the rules to best plan my life path. This is a really big topic, but I’ll try to address it.
14`Why did I think I should study as hard as possible? Before college started, I read many posts about college life that involves 10+ hours of studying every day; Mom also said that grades are most important for PhD; the Zhihu era of 2017 especially instilled in me powerful motivation to study. I remember people saying “if you missed something in your coursework, you’ll have to make it up eventually in the workforce,” and “once you get a solid framework on a technical topic, you can expand it exponentially at work.”
21`None of these are useful if I don’t get a job in the first place. So, what went wrong? Why didn’t I receive a single interview?
24`In the short term, the greatest benefit brought by my excellence at coursework is friends: 329, 359, 979, 698, and at present 495—my friendship with them developed as they rely on me for homework or tests. Of course, more often than not, when I help someone out, we don’t automatically become friends.
21`Why was I unaware of the importance of research and recs in PhD application, and internship in job-hunting?
21`When in PanoPath’s Shanghai event on 1/1, a WST consultant strongly discouraged me to graduate early. I dismissed this advice and changed my standing 7 days later. Will I regret it? Time will tell. Maybe not getting a SWE internship will force me to consider research. Without going through the applications, I will take much longer to realize what it takes for me to go into a top program.
22`This semester, much of my time is reflecting on and presenting the work I’ve already done. This is not only an extremely useful skill in itself, but can also help me discover what I should have done; otherwise I might continue to go down incorrect paths (such as continuing to focus on shuati without an awareness of internship).
21`495 says that 45% of 488’s salary will be lost as tax; when I talked to 488, she admits that it’s difficult to live in the Bay Area with her current salary level. She wants to transfer to the Seattle office (492 will be working there), but that will depend on the mechanics of team rotations.
21`492 says that identity is the most troublesome part of work, which resonates with 495. If he can’t get H1B, then FB might send him to other countries to work. I don’t know how their careers will develop in the long term; once entering work, there will hardly be opportunities for research, leaving perhaps little hope for PhDs, and eventually stuck in SWE.
22`As I said to 495, one first-author paper outweighs 1000 hours of coursework for PhD application.
