D5P272-191218
33`On 12/18 before I met 495, I went to Sichuan University and Kuanzhai Alleys (宽窄巷子) to see which ones are suitable for dating. The gingko trees in Sichuan Univerisity are now bald, so that’s out of my consideration. Kuanzhai Alleys are good, since there are many interesting shops.
41`At 10:30, I invited 495 to a book café to read books. At first, with my love letter not responded, I was quite nervous and unnatural. (It turned out that she didn’t read my letter on 12/17 night…) She read a big data book by Wu Jun (吴军), while I wasn’t in the mood of reading anything. 495 commented that data science is a very practice-oriented field—internships are more important than theory.
33`The café’s vibe is really amazing: there were only a few people, so we could sit beside the window with a beautiful lake in view. There was also some good piano music.
41`On our way from the café to the hot pot restaurant, we discussed the cities we’ve been to in China and the US, and complained about our over-caring mothers. The hot pot was something 495 looked most forward to, although she didn’t end up eating much. During the meal, I discussed my family—how my younger sister 697 came about, while she talked about her childhood good friends.
41`I also said how I want to enter CMU where there will be many beautiful CS girls, and then said “if I succeed in chasing you, then that won’t matter.” “I’ve said that I don’t want to love…” “Oh c’mon!”
41`I originally wanted to tour Du Fu Cottage (杜甫草堂) and other popular tourist sites, but she invited me to watch a movie named Sheep Without A Shepherd (《误杀》) at 15:00. She also mentioned bringing me to an escape game, but we both feared the awkwardness as the intelligence of just two people might be not enough to solve a complex puzzle.
41`After the movie, 495’s eyes hurt, and she decided to cancel the trip at night to instead go home. However, with no keys and both her parents busy, she wasn’t able to go home, and then I had to accompany her to a nearby hospital. She felt much better after she took out her contact lenses.
41`We then walked a long way to a subway station, and then took the subway to a commercial building near Sichuan Stadium where she spent most of her college application days (we originally wanted to tour Jinli (锦里)). I once mentioned to her that she can take me to places she often goes to, and here we are.
41`By that time, unlike in the morning, I felt natural to bring up the topic of love; I spoke without needing to organize my words. I said to her, since I helped her so much in the previous semester, if ask her to be with me it should not be an unreasonable request.
41`She said, she doesn’t like me and has told me she liked someone else (hey, you only mentioned this once, on 10/22 (D5P252)! And after that you still invited me to study with you, so I didn’t take that seriously.)
41`I made some final attempts to persuade her: how I can put in more effort than her in this relationship, how I don’t mind her intimacy with other boys, but the effort was futile. It’s pretty clear that she doesn’t like me on a bf-gf level; 495 changes her mind quickly, but despite this, I feel that it’s hard for her to like me in the near future.
41`Also, 495 is not in need of love, and won’t be with even the boy she likes. I was in a remarkably similar mood in late 2017, influenced by 621, but within 2 years my attitude has gradually changed.
41`After we both made things clear, from 20:00 until we departed at 22:00, we talked about our respective experiences and perspectives on love. By then, I was able to talk nonstop, while she listens. This surprised me in retrospect, but under the right circumstances I can somehow be pretty talkative.
41`495 has a strange obsession with Scorpio for bf and says Pisces is good for being friends. I feel this is not a mature perspective for love. For me, if a girl’s name has associations with numbers, especially 9, 6, 7, or 4 (such as the “9” of 495), it can dramatically increase my intimacy with her. But this cannot affect my choices on a deeper level.
41`495 says that 5 boys have chased her this year. (Also, 026 once mentioned that a 2022er has liked 495.) This makes me feel both inferior and proud as I seem to be always chasing popular girls (621, 493), and I don’t understand why she’s so popular given she almost never dressed well at school and has no WeChat posts (she is active on Instagram, tho).
41`495’s ex only took 4 days to succeed; she asked me why I didn’t ask him how he chased her, and I replied that I have my own way of chasing and caring about a girl.
41`After we both went back, 495 read my love letter and complimented on my handwriting and the first sentence. She was surprised and moved when I said I took a month to plan and write the letter. She offered a lot of encouragement and didn’t want me to feel sad.
41`I commented with regret that our personality and interests are so different. But when I think about it, it’s hard for a girl to like the stuff I like anyway (history and geography), and it’s natural for a couple to have different non-academic interests. Also, it’s not that we can’t find common grounds at all. We spent 3 + 11 hours together in my Chengdu trip, and for the most part didn’t run out of things to talk about.
